QUEST FOR THE EBONY WAND

A FIGHTING FANTASY GAMEBOOK
by
HAMZA MOIZ


Background
For many years, you have been a travelling adventurer, battling ferocious monsters like Orcs, Trolls and Wolves almost every single day. Your reputation has grown throughout this part of the land, and there are few who haven't heard of you. Ever since you were a child, you were trained in the art of swordplay by your now-deceased father. Since then, there have been none that could face you and survive.

Recently, you have come upon the village of Brookhaven. As you enter the village, you are rather surprised to see that most of the villagers give you unfriendly or fearful looks, and hurry to their homes. You decide to head for the village pub, a building with a sign overhanging it reading: 'The Twisted Blade Inn'. As soon as you enter the inn, you walk past the crowded tables and march straight towards the bar. The barkeeper, a large man with a short beard, looks up at you. Curiously, you ask him what is wrong with the villagers. In a grave voice, he relates to you a grim tale.

'A month ago, during a festival being held here in Brookhaven, we were attacked by a band of a dozen Orcs. They killed many of the villagers, looted the houses, and carried some of our men off as prisoners. At first we thought that it was a mere Orc raid, and from then on posted several guards at the edge of the village. Again they attacked a few days later, but this time they were driven out. Now, just a week and a half ago, the Orcs attacked again, but this time they were accompanied by powerful sorcerers who destroyed many of the buildings of the village with powerful fireballs. After this, we held a village meeting, and it was decided that the next time the Orcs attack, a spy should be sent after them. After the raid, which left two more villagers dead, a spy was indeed sent, and he followed them deep into the heart of that accursed wood, the Forest of Darkness! He saw them descend into a crypt beyond a trapdoor located in a clearing. We fear that there is some evil brewing in that crypt, and have tried to hire many warriors, but all have refused. I notice that you appear to be a fighter, so I beg you, please aid us!'

By this time, everyone in the inn is listening, and they all stare at you hopefully. After thinking it over, you announce your decision.

'People of Brookhaven, I shall journey through the Forest of Darkness and into the crypt. There, I shall wipe out the great evil that you fear so much. However, I won't do this job for free.'

The innkeeper chuckles, and tells you that should you succeed, a reward of 300 Gold Pieces, collected from the entire village, will be awaiting you. Hearing this, your jaw drops open in shock. The following morning, after packing all your belongings, you set out. You journey to the Forest of Darkness, and after trekking through it for several hours, as well as battling a pack of hungry wolves, stumble across the clearing. You see the trapdoor in the ground, and you tug at it with all your might. It creaks open slowly. 

Now turn to section 1.
1: Beyond the trapdoor is a flight of moss-covered stone steps leading down. You walk down them, holding your nose so as not to get a whiff of the blood and dust in the air. The steps eventually lead to a long corridor. Turn to 36. 

2: You head towards the two doors at the far end of the hall. The right-hand door has a red brass knocker fashioned in the shape of a demon's ugly head. The left-hand door is just a plain wooden door. Will you use the brass knocker to knock on the right-hand door (turn to 120), open the right-hand door (turn to 146) or open the left-hand door (turn to 68)? 

3: Slowly and silently, the Crypt Zombies descend the stone steps and lurch towards you, their maces whistling through the air. These Zombies are more dangerous than ordinary Zombies as they have been strengthened by the chaotic magic of Valkor. If you have learnt the Fireball spell, you may use it here. It can be cast twice before the Zombies reach you. Each time you wish to cast it, you must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the fireball strikes the Zombie you have chosen to attack and does 4 points of damage. If you are Unlucky, the fireball misses. Fight the Crypt Zombies one at a time:

						SKILL 			     STAMINA
First CRYPT ZOMBIE			    8					8 
Second CRYPT ZOMBIE			    8					8
Third CRYPT ZOMBIE			    8					8
Fourth CRYPT ZOMBIE			    8					8

Remember if you have the magical warhammer Shadowcrusher, you may add its special bonus as your opponents are Undead. If you win, turn to 162.

4: The largest tapestry is different from the others. Although the scene depicted on it is similar to the others in that it is of an Elven warrior fighting a demon, it is much more realistic than the other tapestries, and a shiver runs down your spine as you notice that it seems like the eyes of the demon on the tapestry are following you when you move from side to side. You also notice that the Elf wields a silver dagger in his hand. If you wish to further inspect the tapestry, turn to 192. If not, return to 82 and make another choice.

5: You reach your hand into the compartment, and rummage around. After a moment, you pull out 2 Gold Pieces and a vial filled with a strange red liquid. You decide to keep the Gold Pieces (note them down in your Adventure Sheet). Will you now drink the liquid (turn to 32) or will you decide to do something else (turn to 43)?

6: Just seconds before the Ghoul reaches, you snap out of your trance and draw your weapon, slashing away wildly at your opponent. The Death-Ghoul shrieks angrily, before begin to claw at you furiously with its dirty nails, eyes ablaze with terrible hatred! If you are fighting using a silver dagger, you may add 1 to the damage you do. If you are wielding Shadowcrusher, you know the bonus for this combat, as the Death-Ghoul is an Undead opponent.

DEATH-GHOUL				SKILL 9			  STAMINA 9

If the Death-Ghoul strikes you three consecutive times, turn to 18. If this does not occur at any time during the fight, continue the combat, and if you win, turn to 44.

7: You spot a crumpled scroll under the still form of the Beast-Hulk. You pull the scroll out from under the monster's considerable bulk while trying not to rip it at the same time. The scroll is covered with strange magical runes. If you have drunk a vial of green liquid, turn to 10. If not, you decide to leave the scroll where it is. Gain 1 LUCK point for defeating the Beast-Hulk and then turn to 88.

8: Gripping your sword in your hand, you grab the handle of the door, and slam it open. Beyond it is a dirty room. Rat skulls lie over the floor, and there are two straw mattresses in a corner. Sitting against the wall are two Orc guards. As soon as you enter, they hurriedly rise to their feet. Test your Luck, and deduct 2 from the result if you listened at the door before entering the room. If you are Lucky, turn to 145. If you are Unlucky, turn to 164.

9: You now head back along the maze of tunnels and caverns of the Crypt, occasionally running into a group of Zombies. By the time you have reached the rope leading out of the Crypt, you have lost a bit of STAMINA during battles against the Undead denizens of the Crypt. To determine the total number of STAMINA you have lost, roll 1 die. On a roll of 1-3, you have lost 4 STAMINA points. On a roll of 4-6, you have lost 3 STAMINA points. You now climb up the rope, and find yourself in the torture-chamber. Leaving, you find yourself back in the hall, where you now take the other door (turn to 68).

10: Suddenly, you feel a tingle run up your spine. You look down, and are amazed to see that you can read the words on the scroll. Written on the scroll are the words: 'To defeat the Kargoth, the first spell you must cast is the Fireball spell.' Underneath this sentence are the words to the Fireball spell. Make a note on your Adventure Sheet that you have learnt the Fireball spell. The scroll now crumbles into dust. Gain 1 LUCK point for defeating the Beast-Hulk and learning the Fireball Spell, and then turn to 88.

11: You find that you are somehow able to read the symbols on the scroll. Written on the scroll are the words: 'To defeat the Kargoth, the second spell you must cast is the Earth spell.' Underneath this sentence are the words to the Earth spell. Make a note on your Adventure Sheet that you have learnt the Earth spell. The scroll now crumbles into dust. Gain 1 LUCK point for finding the scroll, and then turn to 9.

12: Sweating profusely, you search the Orc guard's corpse, but find nothing aside from a total of 3 Gold Pieces and a red key. Note down anything that you wish to take on your Adventure Sheet. As there is no other way out of the room, you leave by the door from which you came, and now decide to take the left-hand door (turn to 144).

13: Unable to parry your opponent's blow, you grunt in pain as the blade slices into your shoulder (deduct 2 STAMINA points). You now fight back against the creature - whatever it is. Due to the fact that you are fighting in the dark, you must deduct 2 from your Attack Strength for this combat. Your opponent seems to be able to fight with ease, however.

UNKNOWN ATTACKER			SKILL 8			  STAMINA 8

If you defeat this opponent, turn to 84. 

14: Suddenly, you hear shouts and the sound of boots pounding on the stone floor. You realize that the amount of noise made during the course of your battle with the Orc warrior must have alerted guards! Turn to 142.

15: You slip the key into the lock. With a click, the chest's lid swings open. However, this has triggered a trap. Several tiny, metal darts flies through the air towards you! You try to leap aside. Test your Skill. If you are successful, turn to 27. If you are unsuccessful, turn to 184. 

16: You have managed to break down the door, but at the loss of 2 STAMINA points. You now step into the room beyond. It is small and empty, asides from a powerful-looking, broad-shouldered Orc guard who quickly runs forward to attack. You can see a few gashes on his leather armour, and his sword is splattered with dark blood. It looks like he's been in a fight recently, but strangely, you can't see a corpse anywhere. You do not have time to ponder this however, as the Orc is upon you!

ORC GUARD (slightly wounded)		SKILL 7			STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 12.

17: You slowly approach the rock formation. You are able to make out some words etched onto its rough, hard surface. They read: 'Grimbar the merchant was here.' If you wish, you may note down the name Grimbar in your Adventure Sheet for future references. Shrugging your shoulders, you now cross the clearing. Turn to 28.

18: As the Death-Ghoul strikes you for the third consecutive time, you suddenly feel yourself fall into paralysis once again. This time, the Ghoul quickly rushes forward, eager not to let you combat the effects of the paralysis. The Ghoul grins wickedly, before sinking its sharp teeth into your neck, and sucking out your blood. Later, it will feast itself on your flesh, and you will join the many skeletons here. Your adventure has come to an end, here in the lair of the Death-Ghoul! 

19: You are confronted by a Serpent-Guard clad in chainmail armour. A long red cloak falls from its shoulders. In one scaly hand it holds a cruelly-curved scimitar with a jagged edge. Glaring at you with its slit-eyes, it swiftly slithers forward to attack. This will not be an easy battle.

SERPENT-GUARD				SKILL 8			STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 47.

20: Due to the fact that the Gargoyles are quite slow, you have time to perform one action before they reach you. This action can also be casting a Fireball spell if you know either of it. The Fireball does 4 points of damage. Then, they are upon you. The first Gargoyle swings its two-handed flame sword in a great cut. You duck under the blow, before running past it and backing yourself against one of the dark-stoned plinths. This allows only one of the Gargoyles to attack at a time. If you are wearing a silver ring, you may add 1 to both your Attack Strength, and damage.

						SKILL				     STAMINA
First GARGOYLE				     8					14
Second GARGOYLE				     8					14

Every time either one of the Gargoyles hits you, you must roll 1 die. On a roll of 2-5, it does 3 points of damage with its flame-sword. On a roll of 1 or 6, it does 4 points of damage with its flame-sword. Of course, you may reduce this damage by spending a LUCK point. If you slay both of these foul enchanted monsters, turn to 172.

21: You press your door to the ear. You hear two muttering, guttural voices. You can't be sure what they are saying though. You now decide to open the door (turn to 8).

22: After this encounter, you decide what to do next. Will you search the alcove in the wall (turn to 83), will you leave the entrance hall by the left-hand door (turn to 25), or will you leave the entrance hall by the right-hand door (turn to 110)? 

23: The Ghoul grins wickedly, before sinking its sharp teeth into your neck, and sucking out your blood. Later, it will feast itself on your flesh, and you will join the many skeletons here. Your adventure has come to an end, here in the lair of the Death-Ghoul!

24: The Orc crashes to the ground, dead. A quick search of its clothing reveals that is in possession of 9 Gold Pieces, and a black gauntlet which looks like it might have been two small for it, but would probably fit you perfectly. If you wish to keep either the gold or the gauntlet or both, note whatever you take with you on your Adventure Sheet. Now turn to 39.

25: This door appears to be jammed shut, and will not open no matter how hard you try. To break it down, you will have to suffer the loss of 2 STAMINA points as it is quite sturdy. If you wish to do this, deduct the 2 STAMINA points, and then turn to 139. If you do not wish to break down the door, you now have no option but to open the other door (turn to 110).
26: Amidst the grey dust which is all that is left of the Lich-Knights, you find a Potion of Healing and a scroll covered with runes and symbols. The Potion of Healing has enough for 3 drinks. However, it is rather old, so each drink will restore a mere 3 STAMINA points. You now inspect the scroll. If you have drunk a vial of green liquid, turn to 92. If not, you take the Potion of Healing (note it down in your Adventure Sheet), and you see that there is a pair of double doors at the far end of the hall. As you turn the handles of the doors, you sense that you are quite close to the end of your quest. Turn to 119. 

27: You quickly leap out of the way, and the darts fall harmlessly to the ground. Within the chest are a total of 12 Gold Pieces, a helmet, and a silver ring. If you wish, you may take the Gold Pieces (note them down in your Adventure Sheet if this is what you wish to do). Will you now wear the helmet (turn to 50) or the silver ring (turn to 71)?

28: The path is now almost completely overgrown with bushes and shrubs. You hack your way through the undergrowth. Soon, the path splits off once more. This time will you go right (turn to 127) or will you go left (turn to 199)?

29: Inside this jar you are able to feel something cold with your hand. You carefully pull the object out, and see that it is a round glass sphere containing some sort of white liquid. On top of this glass sphere is a strange lid. If you wish to keep it with you, note it down in your Adventure Sheet. Also, if at any time you wish to drink the liquid within the sphere, make a note of the section you are on at the time, and turn to 147. This can also be done during combat if you win 3 consecutive Attack Rounds. After you have read about the effects of drinking the liquid, whatever they may be, you must return to the section you had noted down. If you now wish to leave the room and take the right-hand door, turn to 110. If not, if you have not already done so, will you open the top of the largest jar (turn to 166) or the middle-sized jar (turn to 115)?

30: The Demon-Knight is a formidable foe. You duck and parry the blows of its battle-axe, each of which causes you to stagger back.

DEMON-KNIGHT				SKILL 9			STAMINA 10

Every Attack Round, if the Demon-Knight strikes you, you must Test your Luck, although no points of LUCK are lost on the roll. If you are Lucky, the Demon-Knight does normal damage. However, if you are Unlucky, the Demon-Knight has done 1 extra point of damage with its battle-axe. If you defeat it, turn to 79.

31: As you begin to cross the rope-bridge, a monstrous roar rises from the depths of the chasm. To your horror, a massive, black-skinned creature resembling a giant octopus rises from the chasm. Its many tentacles are tipped with glowing red skulls. With another roar, the terrifying monster knocks you off the bridge with a spiked tentacle, and down, down you fall into the chasm . . . Your adventure is over.

32: You gulp down the liquid. It tastes just like water, except it is slightly sweet, and has a strange aftertaste. You are disappointed (or perhaps relieved) to find that there are no side effects. Make a note on your Adventure Sheet that you drunk a vial of green liquid, and then return to 43. Remember, you may keep the empty vial if you wish to do so.

33: The door swings open soundlessly. In front of you is a circular chamber. It appears to be empty, so you enter. You scan your surroundings. In one corner of this room is a bronze statuette of a mighty warrior in a corner. Suddenly, you feel a draft at your back. The door slams shut, and you feel something heavy strike you on the shoulder Deduct 2 STAMINA points and then turn to 174. 

34: Your leg hits a hollow part of the statue's pedestal. With a grinding noise, the statue slowly slides to the side, and in a few moments, there is a dark, secret entrance in front of you. You quickly run into the darkness as the statue slides into place. A second later, you hear guards bursting into the room, but fortunately by that time, you are already in the blackness of a tunnel. Turn to 107.

35: You rummage your hand around in the compartment. Suddenly, you feel a sharp pain in your fingers (deduct 1 point of STAMINA). You quickly pull your hand out of the compartment, and see that it is bleeding, and there are teeth-marks in your fingers. You draw your sword and skewer whatever creature lives inside the compartment. Pulling your sword out, you see that it is a large, rat-like creature. You shake the rodent off your sword-blade, before once again sticking your hand in the compartment and rummaging around. This time, you pull out a bag containing 13 Gold Pieces, as well as a wooden ball and a silver dagger. You notice that the silver dagger you have found in the compartment looks remarkably similar to the dagger depicted in the scene on the tapestry. You decide to take the silver dagger.  Note down whatever else you wish to take with you on your Adventure Sheet, and then turn to 48.

36: The corridor is dimly-lit by a single, flickering torch, its flames casting eerie, dancing shadows on the cracked stone walls. You are in the first level of the catacombs' four levels. As you walk on, you suddenly hear the sound of an opponent approaching you from behind. You wheel around, and find yourself looking into the hollow eye-sockets of a skeleton warrior. It is clad in battered chainmail, and in one bony, fleshless hand it wields a bludgeon. The skeleton warrior attacks and you raise your sword to defend yourself against your opponent. Resolve this battle:

SKELETON WARRIOR		SKILL 7				  STAMINA 8

If you manage to defeat the skeleton warrior, turn to 101.

37: The path occasionally veers off into large flower patches. As you are walking amongst one of these, you notice a gleaming object on the ground. If you wish to pick it up, turn to 138. If you would rather leave it where it is, you now see that the path bends sharply to the right. As you walk around the bend, you suddenly bump into a creature ... Roll 1 die. On a roll of 1-2, turn to 19. On a roll of 3-4, turn to 104. On a roll of 5-6, turn to 86.  

38: The slime rolls along the ground towards you, making the same gruesome squelching noise. You raise your weapon to defend yourself against this strange opponent. As it nears you, however, a gob of steaming acid suddenly plops out of the surface of the slime, flying towards you. You leap out of the way, just as the Slime is upon you. Although not a skilled fighter, it is quite dangerous nonetheless.

SLIME				SKILL 7				STAMINA 12

Every time the Slime manages to score a hit on you, you must roll 1 die to see if the acid does any extra damage. If you roll an odd number, it does the normal amount of damage. If, however, you roll an even number, it does an extra point of damage. If you overcome the Slime, turn to 90.

39: The lifeless body of the slain Orc warrior crashes to the ground, blood trickling out of his many wounds. You take a moment to rest (restore 1 STAMINA point). You survey your surroundings again. If you wish to inspect the bronze statuette in the corner of the room, turn to 51. If not, turn to 14. 

40: Suddenly, you hear a groaning noise. You turn to see, to your horror, the Goblin's corpse rising. It picks up the scimitar by its side, and advances towards you, groaning and swinging the scimitar at you. 

GOBLIN ZOMBIE			SKILL 6				  STAMINA 5

If you defeat the Goblin Zombie, if you have not done so already, you may search the Goblin's corpse for valuables (turn to 125) or you may inspect the chest (turn to 167). You may also now leave the room if you wish by turning to 156.

41: As you stare at the rippling surface of the pool, the water seems to shimmer. Curiously, you drop to your knees, and take a gulp of the water. Immediately, you feel reinvigorated and refreshed (restore 4 STAMINA points). If you have an empty glass vial, you may fill it with the water of the healing pool. It will only be enough for 1 drink however, and that drink will restore 3 STAMINA points. Now turn to 78.

43: The chamber is quite wide. Tapestries hang on the walls depicting scenes of battle between Elven warriors and Orc barbarians. In a corner of the chamber is a wooden chest. It appears to be unlocked. At the far end of the chamber are two plain wooden doors. Will you inspect the tapestry? Turn to 179. Will you inspect the chest? Turn to 58. Will you leave by either one of the two doors? Turn to 66. 

44: The now fully-dead (at least you hope so) corpse of the Death-Ghoul lies at your feet. You search around its lair, although you do not wish to tarry here for too long should the Death-Ghoul rise once more! Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 123. If you are Unlucky, turn to 69.

45: Unfortunately, no matter how hard you try, you are unable to open the door. To make matters worse, you have injured your shoulder in the process of attempting to break down the door. Deduct 3 STAMINA points. Gritting your teeth, you now decide to open the left-hand door. Turn to 144.

46: You find a secret panel in the right-hand plinth! Opening it, you see a leather bag inside. You pull it out, and shake it. From inside, you can hear the jingle of coins. Rather greedily, you empty the bag and find yourself staring at 25 Gold Pieces, which you hurriedly shove into your pack. Inside the bag there is also a half-empty Potion of Healing, which has enough liquid left in it for a single drink which will restore 4 STAMINA points. Happy with this fine find, you stride over to the double doors at the end of the hall. Turn to 154.

47: A quick search of the Serpent-Guard's clothing turns up 7 Gold Pieces. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you also find a statuette of a wolf in a secret pocket embroidered in its cloak. If you are Unlucky, you find nothing else of interest. Note down what you wish to take with you on your Adventure Sheet. Now turn to 121.

48: Finished with your inspection of the tapestry, you pull the lever, and the compartment swings shut with a bang. Suddenly, you hear a terrible shriek coming from behind you. You turn around, and are horrified to see a shadowy, terrifying creature floating in the air. It has long, sharp claws of darkness, and its only distinct feature is a pair of gleaming red eyes glowing with an ethereal light. This creature is a Wraith, the cursed soul of a wicked creature bound to the Earthly Plane until it is slain by a warrior such as yourself. Turn to 160. 

49: Unfortunately, you do not get a proper grip on the edge of the pit, and screaming, you fall for about eight metres before landing hard on a few blunt pieces of wood (deduct 4 STAMINA point). If you are still alive, you see that there are sharp iron spikes stuck in the sides of the pit. It will be difficult - but not impossible - to climb up the side of the pit. 

You carefully place your boot on the first spike, and begin climbing up. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you manage to reach the top of the pit with no cuts. If you are Unlucky, you are cut several times by the sharp spikes; roll 1 die and deduct the number rolled from your STAMINA score. In either case, if you are still alive you pull yourself up to the tunnel, and after taking a few minutes to regain your breath, continue your trek. Turn to 117.

50: As soon as you put the helmet on, you suddenly begin to feel a sharp pain in your stomach. You double over, grunting in pain, your eyes screwed shut. Deduct 2 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, the pain eventually subsides. You take off the cursed helmet, and toss it back into the chest. Will you now wear the silver ring if you have not already done so (turn to 71) or will you leave the room (turn to 156)?

51: The statue of the warrior seems to glare down at you with its lifeless bronze eyes. The warrior is a muscular, bearded man. He is middle-aged and has wild hair. Suddenly, you hear loud shouts and the sound of boots pounding on the ground. You realize that the amount of noise made during the course of your battle with the Orc warrior must have alerted guards! You frantically look around for a way out of the room. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 34. If you are Unlucky, turn to 142.

52: You half-turn to see a disgusting, quivering mass of green slime. It squelches its way towards you, enveloping anything in its path. Will you flee (turn to 96) or will you stand your ground and prepare to face the Slime (turn to 38)?

54: Heading back, you see a creature shambling towards you, dragging its feet, its arms outstretched. As the creature nears, you see the sickly grey colour of its skin, and the soulless eyes that stare at you blankly. With a ghastly hiss, the Zombie launches itself at you, raking at your face with its long, filthy nails.

ZOMBIE				SKILL 6				  STAMINA 6

If you defeat the Zombie, you wipe its blood off your sword-blade and onto its tattered clothing. Now turn to 112.

55: Leaping forward, you catch the rock with both hands, before tossing it aside and snatching the Wand of Eldorn. Turn to 129.

56: You are unable to stifle a gasp of amazement and surprise. You are in a giant, subterranean garden. Next to you is a sign, with the name: 'The Garden of Death' written on it. You realize that the entire third level of the Catacombs is in this gigantic cavern. In front of you is a bush-lined path, choked by shrubs. You stride forward along the path. All around you are beautiful, exotic flowers. The source of light provided for these plants, as well as illumination, is a gigantic, glowing crystal embedded in the roof of the cavern. Eventually, the path ends at a T-junction. Will you take the left-hand path (turn to 74) or the right-hand path (turn to 118)?

57: To your horror, a massive, black-skinned creature resembling a giant octopus rises from the chasm. Its many tentacles are tipped with glowing red skulls. The Kargoth roars once more. Do you know the 4 spells needed to defeat the Kargoth? If so, turn to 169. If not, turn to 143.

58: As you had suspected, the chest is unlocked. You open it, but are disappointed to find that it is empty save for a scrap of paper with the word: 'Skulls' written on it in dried blood. Now return to 43.

59: The bolt of black lightning crashes into you (lose 1 SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points). If you are still alive after this, turn to 133.

61: You search the rest of the room. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 103. Otherwise, you now leave the room. Turn to 54.

62: Striking the fatal blow, you step back as the Shadow-Lord roars in anguish. Its helm shatters, and the broken metal shards fall to the ground. You are horrified to see partly rotting, scaly skin underneath, and blazing red eyes. The roar increases in volume, and suddenly the ground begins to shake. The Shadow-Lord bursts into flame. As it does so, marble and rock falls from the ceiling above. You see that the part of the ceiling above the Wand of Eldorn is beginning to crumble as well! Turn to 151.

63: Slamming the door shut behind you, you march along the wide, dimly-lit hall beyond. As you walk along the hall, you do not notice a thin wire stretched along the hall. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 195. If you are Unlucky, turn to 182.

64: The corpse of the slain Beast-Hulk lies at your feet. Oily, disgusting black blood flows out of its wounds and the stench of death rises in the air. Holding your nose, you grab a pendant hanging around its furry neck, before slicing off one of the Beast-Hulk's horns to light the way ahead. Now Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 7. If you are Unlucky, gain 1 LUCK point for defeating this powerful foe, and then turn to 88.

65: As you walk along the corridor, you get a strange sensation of being watched. However, you shrug it off, and hurry towards a door at the end of the corridor. Will you listen at it (turn to 21) or will you open it straight away (turn to 8)?

66: The door on the left has a brass knocker fashioned in the shape of a skull. The door on the right has no distinguishing features. You press your head to both doors and listen at them, but you cannot hear anything. Will you leave the chamber by the right-hand door (turn to 105) or the left-hand door (turn to 144)?

67: 'Intruder!' roars the demon-knocker. 'Die!' Fire streams out of its nostrils and you are burnt to a crisp where you stand. Your adventure is over.

68: You grasp the handle of the door, and turn it. You walk into a dark corridor. Your footfalls echo in the silence of the corridor, and you cannot shake off the strange feeling of being watched. Eventually, the corridor twists to the right. You see that up ahead it widens out to a hall, but there is a door to your left. Will you open the door (turn to 76) or will you walk into the hall (turn to 188)?

69: At the end of this macabre hall, you see an iron portcullis you did not notice before. You approach it, and see that there is a wooden lever set into the wall next to it. You pull the lever, and the portcullis slowly opens. Beyond it is yet another dark passageway . . . Turn to 132.

71: You slip the silver ring around your finger. Nothing happens save for a tingling feeling. Strangely, no matter how much you try, you cannot pull the ring off of your finger. You shrug and decide to leave it as it is. Note the silver ring down in your Adventure Sheet. Turn to 40.

72: Your opponent's blade clangs against your own. You now fight back against the creature - whatever it is. Due to the fact that you are fighting in the dark, you must deduct 2 from your Attack Strength for this combat. Your opponent seems to be able to fight with ease in the darkness, however.

UNKNOWN ATTACKER			SKILL 8			  STAMINA 8

If you defeat this opponent, turn to 84.

73: If you wish to leave this room, turn to 156. If not, will you search the Goblin corpse (turn to 125) or the chest (turn to 167)?

74: The path twists and turns for several hundred metres, before widening out into a large clearing. In the centre of the clearing is a small, twisted formation of rock. If you wish to inspect this, turn to 17. If not, you cross the clearing. Turn to 28.

75: Underneath one of the torture instruments, you find a small, carefully concealed trapdoor. There is a rusty iron ring set into it, and it is covered with strange etchings. If you have drunk a vial containing a strange green liquid, turn to 98. If not, you may now pull open the trapdoor if you wish (turn to 173) or you may leave the torture-chamber and take the other door (turn to 68).

76: The door is locked. Are you in possession of a golden key? If so, turn to 137. If not, you now have no option but to carry on down the hall (turn to 188).

77: The purple moss is warm and slightly sticky. If you wish to rub the purple moss on your wounds, turn to 130. If not, you see that the tunnel widens out in a stone chamber up ahead. Turn to 171. 

78: You duck under the low exit, and quietly descend the steps. Eventually, they end at a short passage which leads to an iron door. You open the door with the key you found after slaying the Orc guards, and walk into an unbelievably massive cavern. Turn to 56.

79: The Demon-Knight roars in anger, before vanishing in mid-air. It has been banished to a Nether-Plane. You search the chamber, and find a bronze ring. Inset into is the number '19'. Make a note of this number, and record the bronze ring on your Adventure Sheet. It has a special magical force. For a total of 3 battles during your adventure, you may rub the ring before a combat. When you do this, you may add 1 to your Attack Strength for that battle only. After that fight, you may restore 4 STAMINA points. Now, finding nothing else of value, you leave the room and advance onwards along the corridor. Turn to 188.

80: 'Grimbar?' you say slowly and hesitantly. 'Yes, it is I!' cries the old man. After thanking you repeatedly, the old man picks up the casket lying at his side, and opens the black lid. Within the casket are many items. 'Would you care to buy one?' asks Grimbar, a grin crossing his smudged features. The cheek of the fellow! Even after you have saved him, he is still offering items for sale rather than giving them to you as gifts. Below is a list of the items Grimbar shall sell, as well as the cost of the item in question. Also, the total amount of how many of each item the merchant has is given right next to it.

Silver Dagger (2)								 2 Gold Pieces
Orb of Flame (1))								 4 Gold Pieces
Chainmail armour (1)								 5 Gold Pieces
Platemail armour (1)								 8 Gold Pieces
Potion of Healing (2)								 3 Gold Pieces

The Silver Dagger will do 2 extra points of damage to certain opponents. The Orb of Flame can be used before a battle. When you use it, you automatically win the first Attack Round, doing exactly 4 points of damage. It can be used a total of 3 times, and if you win 4 consecutive Attack Rounds against an opponent during the course of the battle, you may use it. The chainmail armour will deduct 1 from all damage done to you. However, it will take a maximum of 6 hits, and after that it becomes worthless. The platemail armour will deduct 2 from all damage done to you, and it will take a maximum of 8 hits. The Potion of Healing can be drunk before a battle. There is enough of it for 3 drinks, each of which will restore 4 STAMINA points. After you are done buying any items, turn to 161.

81: The black lightning bolt streaks past you, crashing into a wall with a loud boom. The Shadow-Lord curses angrily, and now begins to wave its hands in the air. It summons 1 die's worth of Zombies, each with a SKILL of 6 and a STAMINA score of 5. Should you defeat these undead horrors, turn to 87.

82: If you wish to inspect the tapestries, turn to 4. If not, you head towards the two doors at the far end of the hall. The right-hand door has a brass knocker fashioned in the shape of a demon's head. The left-hand door is just a plain wooden door. Will you use the brass knocker to knock on the right-hand door (turn to 120), open the right-hand door (turn to 146) or open the left-hand door (turn to 68)?

83: Brushing aside the spider-webs in the alcove, you come upon a bust of a Minotaur with curving horns and glaring eyes, as well as a single Gold Piece. There is also a bag here containing enough cheese and bread for 2 Provisions. Note down whatever you wish to take with you in your Adventure Sheet. Will you now leave the entrance hall by the left-hand door (turn to 25), or the right-hand door (turn to 110)? 

84: With a horrible, guttural-voiced cry of agony, your opponent falls. At the same time, the tunnel you are in is suddenly lit by torches on the walls which come to life the moment your opponent hits the ground. After the darkness that surrounded you previously, the light slightly hurts your eyes, but you now see that your opponent was a squat creature with scaly black skin and sharp brown spikes on its shoulders - a Shadow Lurcher, a hideous undead monster that stalks the dark and fears light. Gain 1 LUCK point for overcoming this foe. 

You also find a vial filled with a clear, scented liquid. You realize it is a Potion of Healing. It has enough liquid in it for three drinks, each which will restore 4 STAMINA points. This area of the Catacombs is the Crypt, where the Shadow-Lord's undead army is raised. It is actually part of the third level of the Catacombs, but is sealed off from the entire level. You follow the tunnel, and notice that the floor is covered by strange pale sand. Large, clawed prints are marked in the sand. Eventually, the tunnel splits off in two directions. Will you go left (turn to 178) or right (turn to 136)?

85: You take a few steps back, before charging forward and ramming your shoulder hard against the door. Roll 1 die. On a roll of 1, 3, or 6, you are unsuccessful in your attempt to knock down the door. Worse, you have slightly injured your shoulder in the process (lose 1 STAMINA point). You may now knock with the strangely-shaped knocker if you have not already done so (120) or you may open the other door (turn to 68). On a roll of 2, 4, or 5, you have succeeded in knocking down the door, but at the loss of 2 STAMINA points as you have injured your shoulder in the process. Turn to 181.

86: Your opponent is a stocky Hobgoblin carrying a sharp spear. Hobgoblins are the stronger cousins of normal Goblins, and tend to be slightly more disciplined. Although they are not as powerful as Orcs, they are still dangerous foes. The Hobgoblin fixes its piggy eyes on you, before rushing forward to fight!

HOBGOBLIN					SKILL 6			  STAMINA 7

If you win, you find that the Hobgoblin is in possession of a single Gold Piece. Now turn to 121.

87: You rush towards the throne. The Shadow-Lord rises, and as it does so, a cursed battle-axe covered with glowing runes and dripping with blood materializes in its hand out of thin air. The top of the battle-axe has been fashioned into the shape of a dragon's head. In addition to its powerful magic, the Shadow-Lord is a frighteningly skilful swordsman. Every third time it strikes you, in addition to losing the normal damage, roll 1 die. If you roll a 6, it does extra damage, and you should consult the table below its stats to see what that extra damage is.

SHADOW-LORD				SKILL 12			STAMINA 18

Dice Roll						     Special Damage			
1	The Shadow-Lord mutters an arcane word, and you lose an extra point of STAMINA.

2	The Shadow-Lord sweeps you with its tail, and you must Test your Skill to determine whether or not you are able to regain your balance. If you are successful, you are able to do so. If you fail, you immediately lose the next Attack Round unless you successfully Test your Luck.

3	The Shadow-Lord head-butts you with the horns protruding out of its death-helm. Roll 1 die, and the number rolled is how many STAMINA points you lose.

4	The Shadow-Lord slams its tail into chest, striking you with one of its spikes. Lose 2 extra points of STAMINA.

5	The Shadow-Lord casts a curse on you. You may choose to lose either 1 SKILL point, or 1 LUCK point.

6	The Shadow-Lord casts a Speed Spell upon itself, and immediately wins the next Attack Round.
If you slay the Shadow-Lord, turn to 62.

88: The tunnel twists and turns many times. Your light illuminates crude, gruesome pictures of a tentacled beast drawn in blood on the walls of the tunnel. Underneath each of the pictures is written one word: 'Kargoth'. For some strange, unexplainable reason, a feeling of nausea and fear overcomes you each time you read the name. Eventually, the tunnel becomes more like a corridor. In front of you is an arch, and beyond the arch you can see cracked stone steps leading downwards. You walk through the arch, and as you do so, you feel magical energy run through you (restore your STAMINA score to its Initial level). You now head down the stairs to the second level of the catacombs. Now turn to 175.

89: You race up the steps leading to the third level. Unfortunately, just then, the tunnels of the Catacombs cave-in and you are crushed, along with the Wand of Eldorn. Your quest has come to an end.

90: The slime explodes into thousands of tiny clumps of acidic slime. Roll 1 die. This is how much STAMINA you lose as some of the clumps strike you. If you are still alive, you now see a scroll lying in the midst of the slime, covered with odd runes. If you have drunk a vial of green liquid, turn to 102. If not, you now head towards the iron door at the end of this massive cavern. Turn to 63.

91: You quickly leap aside, and the beam of light strikes the wall behind you. With an angry roar of rage, Valkor runs down the steps, his staff aimed at your chest. Before Valkor reaches you, you may drink a Potion of Healing if you have one. Now you battle the evil necromancer to the death. In addition to being a powerful spellcaster, he is also a skilled fighter.

VALKOR					SKILL 8			STAMINA 10

If you are wearing a silver ring, you may add 1 to your Attack Strength for this combat only. Every 3rd Attack Round, regardless of the result of the Round, Valkor will cast a Weakness Spell. When this happens, you must roll 1 die. On a roll of 1-3, his spell has succeeded, and you must lose 2 STAMINA points. On a roll of 4-6, his spell has failed. If you manage to overcome Valkor, turn to 152.

92: Thanks to the magical power of the green liquid within the vial, you find, to your surprise that you are able to read the runes and symbols on the scroll. They read: 'To defeat the Kargoth, the fourth and final spell you must cast is the Lightning spell.' Beneath this sentence are the words to the Lightning spell, which you memorize. Make a note of this fact down in your Adventure Sheet. The scroll now crumbles into dust. Gain 1 LUCK point for learning the spell. You decide to keep the Potion of Healing (remember to also make a note of this in your Adventure Sheet). You see that there is a pair of double doors at the far end of the hall. As you turn the handles of the doors, you sense that you are quite close to the end of your quest. Turn to 119. 

93: You cannot find a way out of the chamber, and decide to try to run all the way back to the first level of the Catacombs. You race up the steps leading to the third level. Unfortunately, just then, the tunnels of the Catacombs cave-in and you are crushed, along with the Wand of Eldorn. Your quest has come to an end. 

94: If you have a wooden flute, and wish to blow it into, turn to 176. If you are in not in possession of a wooden flute, or do not wish to blow into it, do you have a silver bell? If you are in possession of one, and wish to use it, turn to 193. If you have neither of these items, or do not wish to use either of them, turn to 30.

95: You slip the bronze key into the lock, and are surprised to see that the green glow does not harm you. Turning the key, you open the doors. In front of you is a huge, high-vaulted chamber, lit by torches with magical blue flames. At the far end of the chamber is a black throne, flanked on either side by shadowy, mindless demon-beasts. Sitting on the throne is an armoured creature with bat-like wings and a long, spiked, scaly tail. A gleaming, horned black helm hides its rotting undead features from view. In front of the throne is a stone altar, entwined by hissing snakes with sharp, venomous fangs. On the altar is the goal of your quest: the ebony Wand of Eldorn, tipped with silver and radiating powerful magic. You must turn to 126. 

96: As you turn to run towards the door, with a revolting popping noise, the slime sends a gob of acid flying through the air toward your back! You look over your shoulder, and see that it is about to land. Desperately, you attempt to leap out of the way. Test your Skill. If you are successful, the acid misses. If you are unsuccessful, the acid hits (deduct 3 STAMINA points). In either case, if you are still alive and you now wish to face the slime, turn to 38. If not, thankful to still be in one piece, you continue your mad rush towards the iron door. Turn to 185.

97: The Lesser Spirit dissipates in a puff of black smoke, which leaves you coughing (lose 1 STAMINA point). If you wish to leave the room and take the right-hand door, turn to 110. If not, will you open the top of largest jar (turn to 166), the middle-sized jar (turn to 115) or the smallest jar (turn to 29)?

98: All of a sudden, you feel a slight pain in your skull, but after a few seconds it subsides. To your amazement, you find that you are now able to understand the etchings on the trapdoor. They say that a magical spell has been cast upon the trapdoor and that when it is opened, a fireball will fly up from within and strike whoever is directly above. With this knowledge, you crouch to a side, and carefully open the trapdoor. As had been written, a fireball suddenly flies up from within, but it harmlessly strikes the ceiling. You see a rope in the darkness beyond the trapdoor. If you wish to climb down it, turn to 148. If not, you now decide to leave the torture-chamber and take the other door (turn to 68).

99: The Orcs fall to the ground. You search their clothing, and find a key, and 11 Gold Pieces. Will you now inspect the pool of water (turn to 41) or will you rather head immediately out of the cavern and down the steps to the third level (turn to 78)?

100: The demon-knocker now remains silent. Will you now open this door (turn to 146) or open the other door (turn to 68)

101: You breathe heavily, looking at the fallen figure of the skeleton warrior. You notice a pouch lying at its side. You open it, and find 6 Gold Pieces and a silver ring. Take whatever you wish, and note down your new possessions on your Adventure Sheet. You now carry on along the corridor. Turn to 165.

102: You are able to read the words on the scroll. Written on the scroll are the words: 'To defeat the Kargoth, the third spell you must cast is the Wind spell.' Underneath this sentence are the words to the Wind spell. Make a note on your Adventure Sheet that you have learnt the Wind spell. The scroll now crumbles into dust. Gain 1 LUCK point for learning the spell and defeating the Slime. You now head towards the iron door. Turn to 63.

103: You find an armband stuffed in one of the mattresses. You place it around your arm, and you suddenly feel energy surge through you. Regain 4 STAMINA points. This is an Armband of Strength. It will add +1 to your Attack Strength for all battles. Happy with your find, you leave the room. Turn to 54.

104: You are confronted by an Orc guard wearing patched leather armour and wielding a halberd. It charges forward to attack.

ORC						SKILL 7			  STAMINA 8

If you win, you search the Orc's body and find 4 Gold Pieces. Now turn to 121.

105: The door is locked. If you wish to instead try the other door, turn to 144. If not, you decide to try to break down the door. You take a few steps back, before charging it. Roll 1 die. On a roll of 1, 3 or 6, turn to 16. On a roll of 2, 4 or 5, turn to 45.

106: Suddenly, you feel hear a quiet whisper in your ear. You jump up in the air, letting out a cry of fear. However, you quickly recover and whip around, drawing your sword. In front of you is the hovering image of an old man with steel-grey eyes. 'Help me . . .' he moans. Will you strike out at the spirit (turn to 116) or will you attempt to talk to it (turn to 150)?

107: You feel your way against the wall of the tunnel. Suddenly, the darkness around you is illuminated by a bright white light, so strong that you must shield your eyes for a few seconds. As the intensity of the light is reduced, you lower your hand your face, but almost immediately you finish you hadn't done so. In front of you is a horrific monstrosity. It stands well over two metres tall, and is covered with shaggy white fur. Its torso and arms are well-muscled, and its face resembles that of a wolf. In the centre of its furry chest is a long, scaly, slimy green tentacle. The creature has glowing red eyes, but the source - or rather sources - of the glow that had nearly blinded you just moments ago are two glowing horns sprouting out of its skull. With a bestial roar, the Beast-Hulk leaps forward, intent on ripping your throat opens with its sharp claws. Turn to 159. 

108: The moment your weapon strikes the second Shadow-Fiend, it lets out a haunting wail before crumbling into dust. The Shadow-Lord roars with anger, its roar echoing around the room. You rush forward to the throne, intent on killing your enemy. Unfortunately, the Shadow-Lord is prepared, and with a rasping cry, sends black lightning out of the clawed tips of its fingers towards you. You attempt to leap aside. Test your Skill. If you are successful, turn to 81. If you fail, turn to 59.

109: The burning ball of flame crashes into you, killing you instantly. Your quest has come to an end.

110: The door creaks open slowly. Stretching out in front of you is a dusty corridor, lined on either side by three dark figures. As you walk forward uncertainly, you see that they are clad in once-beautiful plate armour, and in their gauntlet-clad hands they hold rusted swords, dark with blood and giving off an eerie, ethereal glow. However, their skin is grey and rotting, and their eyes are glowing red, radiant with pure evil and malice. These ancient warriors are Lich-Knights, the most powerful type of undead monster save for Vampires, Lich-Kings and Mummies. 

With ghastly, strangled hisses, the six Lich-Knights move forward to attack you one at a time. This will be a very, very difficult battle. However, as the Lich-Knights are very slow, every time you defeat one, you have time to perform a single action of any kind before the next one attacks, thus meaning that you are not at a complete disadvantage. Also, you should read the entire text beneath your opponents' stats before conducting this battle so as to properly conduct it. Every time one of the Lich-Knights is slain, it crumbles into dust, and the next lurches forward.

						SKILL				     STAMINA
First LICH-KNIGHT				    8					10
Second LICH-KNIGHT			    8					10
Third LICH-KNIGHT				    8					10
Fourth LICH-KNIGHT			    8					10
Fifth LICH-KNIGHT				    8					10
Sixth LICH-KNIGHT				    8					10

Note: If you are in possession of Shadowcrusher, two of the Lich-Knights immediately crumble into dust, and if you are in possession of a silver ring, one of the Lich-Knights immediately crumbles into dust. Also, if at any time you manage to score 3 consecutive hits on any of the Lich-Knights, you immediately win the next Attack Round. Each time one of Lich-Knights wins an Attack Round, you must roll 1 die. If you roll from 2-5, it does the normal 2 points of damage. If you roll a 1 or a 6, however, it has done 3 points of damage, which cannot be reduced in any way, so when this extra point of damage is done, Testing your Luck to lower the damage will be wasted. If you are somehow able to slay these terrifying undead warriors, turn to 135.

111: Your fingers grab the edge of the pit. Grunting with the effort, you haul yourself up and out of the pit, and as you do so, you feel your ankle brush against something cold and hard. Below you are sharp spikes stuck in the side of the pit, and at the bottom of the pit are several blunt pieces of wood. Taking a moment to catch your breath, you now set off along the tunnel once again (turn to 117).

112: The passageway twists and turns for about fifty metres, before bending left. However, you also see a heavy wooden door in front of you. Will you open the door (turn to 191) or will you follow the bend (turn to 156)?

113: You do not notice a trip-wire on the ground, and you stumble over it. This sets off a trap, and a spear suddenly flies through the air, catching you in the forehead. You fall to the ground, dead. Your adventure is over.

114: You look around desperately, trying to find a way out of the chamber. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 194. If you are Unlucky, turn to 93.

115: Inside the find 5 Gold Pieces. Now Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, your hand emerges from the jar unharmed. If you are Unlucky, however, your hand is badly cut from some sharp glass inside the jar, and bleeding. If this happens, you must roll 1 die. If you roll an even number, you cut the hand of your sword arm, and will lose 2 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point. If you roll an odd number, you cut the hand of your other arm, and merely lose 2 points of STAMINA. In either case, if you wish to now leave the room and open the right-hand door (turn to 110). If you do not wish to do this, if you have not already done so, will you now open the top of the largest jar (turn to 166) or the smallest jar (turn to 29)?

116: You swing your sword at the image of the old man, who lets out a moan before fading. Breathing hard with fright, you wait for your heartbeat to return to normal before deciding what to do next. Will you search the alcove in the wall (turn to 83), will you leave the entrance hall by the left-hand door (turn to 25), or will you leave the entrance hall by the right-hand door (turn to 110)? 

117: The tunnel now narrows slightly. You notice a strange, unnatural-looking purple moss growing on the walls of the tunnel. It has a faint glow, and smells of smoke. If you wish to touch the purple moss (turn to 77). If not, you see that the tunnel widens out in a stone cavern up ahead. Turn to 171.

118: The path is frequently overgrown with shrubs and tangled creepers. Suddenly, you hear a shout coming from behind you. You turn around to see a tall, slim humanoid with slightly long, pointed ears and long silvery hair. A scar runs from his forehead to his chin. This creature is a Dark Elf. With lithe and elegant movements, the Dark Elf strides towards you. He is armed with a broadsword and is a skilled veteran of many battles. Resolve this combat:

DARK ELF WARRIOR			SKILL 8			  STAMINA 8	

If you survive this battle, you search the Dark Elf's corpse in the hope of finding valuables of some sort, and you are not disappointed! In a pouch hanging from the Dark Elf's belt, you find 12 Gold Pieces, a Potion of Healing, and a strange, egg-like object. It is just larger than a chicken's egg, and is red in colour. Gain 1 LUCK point for this fine booty. You decide to keep the gold and the potion (note this down in your Adventure Sheet). If you would now like to crack open the egg, turn to 157. If not, you may take the egg if you wish. You now head onwards. Turn to 37.

119: In front of you is a long, gloomy corridor, covered with a thick layer of dust. The walls here are daubed in blood, and at the far end of the door is an archway with torches on either side. The archway has been fashioned in the shape of a demon's jaws. You quickly pass under the archway. Turn to 177.

120: You grasp the knocker, when suddenly a deep, powerful voice orders you to let go. With a short cry of shock, you let go of the knocker, and see that its eyelids have flicked open, revealing blood-shot slits beneath. The demon-knocker's mouth is also moving. It says, 'To enter the room beyond, you must say the password.' Do you know the password? If so, multiply the number of letters in the password by 30, and turn to that section number. If you do not know the password, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 100. If you are Unlucky, turn to 67. 

121: Having defeated your foe, you stride forward. Soon you see that the path up ahead is clearer and freer of vegetation. Several times, the path disappears into the thicket. Eventually, after navigating yourself around a way of twisting paths, you find yourself near an iron door which marks the end of the third catacomb level. Suddenly, you hear a squelching noise. Turn to 52.

122: You leap aside, but the beam of light catches you on the shoulder, and you are unable to stifle a howl of pain (deduct 3 STAMINA points). If you are still alive, Valkor runs down the steps, his staff aimed at your chest. Before Valkor reaches you, you may drink a Potion of Healing if you have one. Now you battle the evil necromancer to the death. In addition to being a powerful spellcaster, he is also a skilled fighter.

VALKOR					SKILL 8			STAMINA 10

If you are wearing a silver ring, you may add 1 to your Attack Strength for this combat. Every 3rd Attack Round, regardless of the result of the Round, Valkor will cast a Weakness Spell. When this happens, you must roll 1 die. On a roll of 1-3, his spell has succeeded, and you must lose 2 STAMINA points. On a roll of 4-6, his spell has failed. If you manage to overcome Valkor, turn to 152. 

123: You find a golden talisman next to the corpse of one of the skeletons. You decide to put it around your neck, and as you do so, your wounds begin to heal! Restore 4 STAMINA points if any have been lost, and gain 1 LUCK point. Now turn to 69.

124: If you now wish to search the hall, turn to 46. If not, you now head towards the double doors at the far end of the hall (turn to 154).

125: Aside from a few rat skulls, the Goblin appears to have nothing of use, as you are not used to wielding a scimitar. However, you notice a dagger sheathed in a scabbard at the Goblin's belt. If you wish to take it, note it down in your Adventure Sheet. Will you now search the chest (turn to 167) or leave the room (turn to 156)?

126: With a lift of its gauntlet-clad hand, the Shadow-Lord sends the two Shadow Fiends lumbering towards you. You can barely make out their dark features, but you can see that they have curved horns and spiked shoulders. As the Shadow-Lord looks on from his throne, you battle his minions. Fight the Shadow-Fiends together.

						SKILL				     STAMINA
First SHADOW FIEND			     8					 9
Second SHADOW FIEND			     8					 9

Every time one of the Shadow-Fiend wins an Attack Round, in addition to wounding you, it drains your life-force, doing 3 points of damage rather than 2. If you overcome these twisted demons, turn to 108.

127: The path now bends sharply to the right to the right. As you walk around the bend, you suddenly bump into a creature ... Roll 1 die. On a roll of 1-2, turn to 19. On a roll of 3-4, turn to 104. On a roll of 5-6, turn to 86. 

128: You have no option now but to try to break down the door. You take a few steps backward, before slamming your shoulder against the door. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 153. If you are Unlucky, turn to 149.

129: Entire parts of the wall crash to the ground. You look around frantically, ducking under pieces of masonry. If you wish to look for a way out of this chamber, turn to 114. If you would rather race all the way to the first level of the Catacombs and try to escape, turn to 89.

130: At first you feel nothing, but then you suddenly feel your wounds healing, and a warm glow courses through you. Regain 4 STAMINA points and 1 LUCK point! You may take three more clumps of the purple moss with you. Each will restore 3 STAMINA points. You now see that the tunnel widens out in a stone chamber up ahead. Turn to 171.

131: Unfortunately, you are too slow. The rock crashes on to the Wand, and you can only watch in horror. Suddenly, there is a burst of destructive blue light, wiping out the entire castle and its denizens, including you. You have failed miserably in your quest.

132: The passageway is narrow and claustrophobic. Eventually, it opens up into a small stone cavern. In the cavern is a pool of gleaming water. At the far end of the cavern is an exit, and beyond it you can see a set of stone steps, leading down to the third level of the catacombs. However, standing in front of the exit are two figures clad in chainmail and hefting cudgels. As you move closer, you see that they are Orcs, the final guards of the second level of the catacombs. Suddenly, they see you and attack. Fight the Orcs together.

						SKILL				     STAMINA
First ORC GUARD				     7					 7
Second ORC GUARD				     7					 7

If you win, turn to 99.

133: You rise unsteadily to your feet, groaning in pain. The Shadow-Lord lets out a rasping laugh, before beginning to wave its hands in the air. It summons 1 die's worth of Zombies, each with a SKILL of 6 and a STAMINA score of 5. Should you defeat these undead horrors, turn to 87.

134: You walk around the torture-chamber, occasionally stepping over a skeleton. You see that there is a particularly vicious torture instrument in a corner of the room: a long stretching-rack covered with small yet sharp spikes, causing extra pain and torment to whatever unfortunate soul was tortured on that torture instrument. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 75. If you are Unlucky, you find nothing else of any interest, so you leave the torture-chamber and take the other door (turn to 68).

135: The last of the Lich-Knight crumbles into grey dust at your feet. As this happens, you feel energy rush through you. Restore your STAMINA score to its Initial total. If you wish to search the remains of the Lich-Knights, turn to 26. If not, you see that there is a pair of double doors at the far end of the hall. As you turn the handles of the doors, you sense that you are quite close to the end of your quest. Turn to 119.

136: The tunnel slopes slightly, and you walk along it for a hundred metres, when you see a large creature lumbering towards you. It resembles a Troll, but is slightly smaller, and its face is deformed. A clumsy opponent, the Disfigured Troll stumbles towards you, swinging a large club at your face.

DISFIGURED TROLL			SKILL 7			STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 168.

137: Slipping the key into the lock, you open the door, where you enter a large, high-vaulted chamber. Skulls hang from the walls. Standing in the centre of the chamber is a large, armour-clad figure. It stands about two metres tall, and the armour it wears is black in colour. In its hands it hefts a double-headed battle-axe, gleaming in the dim light of the chamber. With a rasping cry, the Demon-Knight advances towards you! Turn to 94.

138: The object is a Jade Talisman in the shape of the skull. As you pick it up, you suddenly hear wicked laughter, and your head begins to throb with pain (deduct 2 STAMINA points). If you are still alive, the pain eventually subsides into a dull ache. You drop the cursed talisman and hurry on. Up ahead, you see that the path bends sharply to the right. As you walk around the bend, you suddenly bump into a creature . . . Roll 1 die. On a roll of 1-2, turn to 19. On a roll of 3-4, turn to 104. On a roll of 5-6, turn to 86.

139: Stepping over the door, you find yourself in a small, barely furnished room. In one corner of the room are three large vases. Suddenly, with a burst of light, a shadowy being materializes in the centre of the room. It is a Lesser Spirit, a magical, featureless creature, and you must try your best to slay it. If you have a whistle, you may blow it now. It will cause the Lesser Spirit to lose 1 SKILL point and 2 STAMINA points.

LESSER SPIRIT				SKILL 7			  STAMINA 6		
You may flee after any successful Attack Round and open the other door, as the Lesser Spirit will not follow you if you do so. However, as you run to leave the room, the Lesser Spirit will automatically strike you to do 2 points of damage.  If you wish to do this, turn to 110. If you choose not to flee and defeat the Lesser Spirit, turn to 97.

140: Warily, you creep into the hall. A shiver runs down your spine as you gaze at the skeletons. You feel yourself being drawn towards the casket in the centre of the hall. You watch in a trance as the lid of the casket slowly swings open by itself. In the casket is a rotting corpse, covered by wriggling maggots. Suddenly, the rotting corpse sits bolt upright, and its dead eyes flick open and stare at you! The Ghoul rises to its feet, and shambles towards you, mouth open revealing blood-stained, needle-sharp teeth. You realize that you are in a paralysis! Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 6. If you fail, turn to 23.

141: 'My name is Grimbar, and I am a merchant. For many years, I have been hiding in a secret chamber in the first floor of the Catacombs, as occasionally some brave warrior seeking to defeat the Shadow-Lord would find my chamber, and purchase some of my wares. A week ago, a patrol of Orcs discovered my secret chamber, and captured me. I managed to escape, fleeing to the Garden of Death, but unfortunately, I was captured again, and was imprisoned in this cell. I am to be sacrificed to the great beast, the Kargoth, which lays in rest in the chasm in the cavern from which you have just come.' 

After thanking you repeatedly, the old man picks up the casket lying at his side, and opens the black lid. Within the casket are many items. 'Would you care to buy one?' asks Grimbar, a grin crossing his smudged features. The cheek of the fellow! Even after you have saved him, he is still offering items for sale rather than giving them to you as gifts. Below is a list of the items Grimbar shall sell, as well as the cost of the item in question. Also, the total amount of how many of each item the merchant has is given right next to the name of the item.

Silver Dagger (2)								 2 Gold Pieces
Orb of Flame (1))								 4 Gold Pieces
Chainmail armour (1)								 5 Gold Pieces
Platemail armour (1)								 8 Gold Pieces
Potion of Healing (2)								 3 Gold Pieces

The Silver Dagger will do 2 extra points of damage to certain opponents. The Orb of Flame can be used before a battle. When you use it, you automatically win the first Attack Round, doing exactly 4 points of damage. It can be used a total of 3 times, and if you win 4 consecutive Attack Rounds against an opponent during the course of the battle, you may use it. The chainmail armour will deduct 1 from all damage done to you. However, it will take a maximum of 6 hits, and after that it becomes worthless. The platemail armour will deduct 2 from all damage done to you, and it will take a maximum of 8 hits. The Potion of Healing can be drunk before a battle. There is enough of it for 3 drinks, each of which will restore 4 STAMINA points. After you are done buying any items, turn to 161. 

142: Four armoured Serpent-Guards wielding long, curved scimitars burst into the room. Behind them are eight Orc warriors.  The leader, who is also the largest, slithers forward, and begins to slash its scimitar at you with frightening speed. You manage to hold your own against it, but the others quickly slither forth, and you are soon overpowered and killed. You have failed in your quest. Your adventure is over. 

143: You stab and hack at the tentacles of the Kargoth repeatedly, as does Grimbar, who is also occasionally calling out some unintelligible words. Each time he does this, a beam of light flies from the palm of his hand, striking the Kargoth. Finally, the Kargoth bats back your weapons with one of its tentacles, and mounts an offense. This will not be an easy battle, as the Kargoth is an extremely powerful opponent even in its current weakened state.

KARGOTH				SKILL 10				STAMINA 20

You may use any of Grimbar's items, if you have bought them. In addition to the other items, if you are using a Silver Dagger, the special damage is done. Every time the Kargoth wins an Attack Round, roll 1 die. If you roll from 2-5, it does normal damage. However, if you roll a 1 or a 6, it has knocked you off the bridge with a swipe of one of its tentacles. Every time you wound the Kargoth, you may roll 1 die. If you roll an even number, the normal damage is done. If you roll an odd number, Grimbar also strikes the Kargoth with his sword, doing 1 point of damage. If you are able to overcome this monstrous foe, turn to 196.

144: You push at the door, and it swings wide open. You enter a rough passageway cut out of stone. It is silent and empty. Up ahead, you see that it ends at a T-junction. Will you go left (turn to 65) or will you go right (turn to 112)?

145: Before the Orcs can prepare themselves for battle or even grab their weapons, you have already slain one of them with a slash to his head. The other one snarls angrily, and lunges forward, jabbing at you with its spear.

ORC					SKILL 8				  STAMINA 7

The Orc is a skilled warrior. If you win, turn to 187.

146: The door is locked. If you wish to try to knock it down, turn to 85. If not, you may now knock on it with the strangely-shaped knocker if you have not already done so (turn to 120) or you may open the other door (turn to 68)?

147: You gulp down the potion. Suddenly, you feel very odd. Roll 1 die to determine which potion this is, and what its effects are.

Dice Roll 							    Effect
1.2 This potion is a Potion of Healing. As you drink it, you feel your wounds healing. Restore 4 STAMINA points if you lost them. Now the contents of the sphere are finished.
3-4	This potion is a Potion of Speed. If you are in a fight, you immediately win the next 2 Attack Rounds. If not, the potion is wasted. Now the contents of the sphere are finished.
5-6	This potion is a Potion of Clumsiness. If you are in a fight, you immediately lose the next Attack Round. If not, deduct 1 point of SKILL. Now the contents of the sphere are finished.

After reading these effects and making the necessary adjustments, return to the section you were reading.

148: You grasp the rope and slowly begin to climb down it. Eventually, you reach the bottom. All around you is total darkness. Suddenly, you hear the sound of footsteps approaching. You instinctively draw your sword, and at the same time, you hear the sound of your opponent's weapon being drawn. You hear a whistling noise, like the sound of a blade swinging through the air towards you. With terror gripping your heart, you blindly raise your sword in the air. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 72. If you are Unlucky, turn to 13. 

149: As you slam your shoulder against the door, the magical trap is activated. Green fire envelops you, shrouding you in flame. Screaming in pain, you drop to the floor, burning. Your adventure is over.

150: You take a hesitant step backward. 'Are you a ghost?' you inquire. The old man replies, 'No, I'm a merchant. My name is Grimbar. I have used my very limited magical power to contact any Good creature in this hellish place. I am locked in a cell in the lair of the great beast, the Kargoth. In just two hours, I will be sacrificed to it. Help me, please!' If you have seen the name Grimbar written somewhere already, turn to 155. If not, you ask another question. 'What is this Kargoth?' The old man begins to give an answer. 'The Kargoth is an evil, tentacled beast. It is the final - and most powerful - guardian of the Shadow-Lord. It can be defeated by four ...' suddenly the image of the old man fades. His spell must have worn off. If you should come upon the lair of this creature - the Kargoth - you should look for the merchant's cell first. Just then, you remember that you had seen images of the Kargoth drawn in blood on the walls of the tunnel you were in at the end of the first level of the Catacombs. You shudder as you imagine facing such a horrible creature.  Now turn to 22.
 
151: You race past the flaming corpse of the Shadow-Lord toward the stone altar. Suddenly, a large stone falls from the ceiling. It is about to land right on top of the Wand! You leap forward to catch it. Test your Skill. If you are successful, turn to 55. If you fail, turn to 131.

152: With a cry of anguish, Valkor falls over, writhing in pain and clutching at a large gash on his chest struck by your blade. To your disgust, the blood that flows out of his wound is not red, but rather a sickly green colour. In a minute, he is dead. Gain 1 LUCK point for defeating this servant of evil. You search Valkor's lair, and find 6 Gold Pieces in one sarcophagus, and a small, double-bladed knife in another. You also find a golden key. Note down whatever you wish to keep in your Adventure Sheet. Now you must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 183. If you are Unlucky, turn to 9.

153: As you slam your shoulder against the door, the magical trap is activated. Green fire envelops you, shrouding you in flame. A few seconds later, the flame subsides, but by that time the flame has already left you badly burnt (deduct 6 STAMINA points). If you are still alive after this, the door suddenly swings open with a click. Turn to 190.

154: You push open the double doors. In front of you are yet more stairs leading to the fourth - and final - level of the Catacombs where the Shadow-Lord lurks. You slowly descend the stairs, which eventually lead to an entry hall. Torches hang from brackets on either side of you, and there are many statues here. You notice an alcove in the wall. There are two golden doors at the far end of the hall. Turn to 106.

155: 'Yes, I carved my name on the twisted rock formation in the Garden of Death. I was fleeing from a patrol of Orc warriors who had finally breached my secret chamber in the level below the Garden. I implore you, please help me.' You ask another question. 'What is this Kargoth?' The old man begins to give an answer. 'The Kargoth is an evil, tentacled beast. It is the final - and most powerful - guardian of the Shadow-Lord. It can be defeated by four ...' suddenly the image of the old man fades. His spell must have worn off. If you should come upon the lair of this creature - the Kargoth - you should look for the merchant's cell first. Just then, you remember that you had seen images of the Kargoth drawn in blood on the walls of the tunnel you were in at the end of the first level of the Catacombs. You shudder as you imagine facing such a horrible creature.  Now turn to 22. 

156: You follow the bend. As you walk around it, you suddenly hear a distant roaring noise, and the hairs on the nape of your neck rise in fear. You halt, unsure of whether you should continue onwards or not. However, after taking a few deep breaths, you continue on. Soon, the passageway ends at yet another wooden door. You grip the handle of the door and open it. Turn to 33.

157: As you crack open the egg, there is a sudden burst of flame which singes your fingers slightly (lose 1 STAMINA point). You drop the egg, and red liquid seeps out of it. The egg has been wasted. Shrugging your shoulders, you now carry onwards without further ado. Turn to 37.

158: The door opens to a cell-like room. Sitting on the floor is a tired-looking old man with a large casket next to him. His hands and face are grubby, and his clothes are covered with grime and filth. Seeing that you are a human, and not some evil Orc or Zombie, the old man rises to his feet. 'Oh thank you, thank you for saving me!' He cries. If you think you know who the old man is, turn to 80. If not, turn to 141.

159: Do you have a black gauntlet? If so, turn to 186. If not, you must battle the ferocious Beast-Hulk to the death:

BEAST-HULK			SKILL 9				STAMINA 12

If you are wearing a silver ring, you may deduct 1 from the Beast-Hulk's Attack Strength, as well as 1 from the amount of damage it does to you. Also, every 3rd Attack Round, if the Beast-Hulk wins the round, you must roll 1 die. On a roll of 1-3, the Beast-Hulk, in addition to having struck you with its claws, wraps the tentacle on its chest around your body. You suddenly feel intense pain, and must roll 1 die again. This is the amount of extra STAMINA points you lose. On a roll of 4-6, you are able to beat back the tentacle before it wraps itself around you. If you manage to slay this powerful foe, turn to 64.

160: The Wraith slowly drifts towards you, slashing the air with its shadowy claws. You instinctively raise the silver dagger in your hand, and wait for your Undead magical opponent to reach you. This will not be an easy battle.

WRAITH				SKILL 8				STAMINA 10

You are certainly lucky to be in possession of one of the only weapons to which the Wraith is vulnerable. Every time it wounds you, roll 1 die. On a roll of 2, 4 or 5, it has done the normal amount of damage. However, on a roll of 1, 3 or 6, it does 1 extra point of damage as it sucks out your life-force. If you win, turn to 197. 

161: With Grimbar by your side, you creep out of the cell, and back in the cavern. You notice that Grimbar has armed himself with a shortsword. Together, the two of you begin to cross the rope-bridge. Suddenly, a monstrous roar rises from the depths of the chasm. 'The Kargoth has awoken!' whispers Grimbar, terror in his eyes. Turn to 57.

162: As the last Crypt Zombie falls, you feel energy rush through you (regain 3 STAMINA points). Seeing that you have defeated his minions, Valkor curses angrily and snaps his fingers. Suddenly, a beam of destructive white light shoots out of the tip of his staff and streaks through the air towards you! Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 91. If you fail, turn to 122.

164: You rush forward, trying to get the advantage, but the Orcs are quick. They swiftly snatch up their weapons and advance towards you, grinning savagely and displaying sharp yellow teeth. Fight the Orcs together.

					SKILL					     STAMINA
First ORC				    7						7
Second ORC				    8						7

The Orcs are skilled warriors. If you win, turn to 187.

165: Up ahead, you see a stone arch. Beyond it you can see a large chamber. You quicken your pace, and step through the arch and into the chamber, but as you do so, you feel a sudden sharp pain in your head (deduct 1 STAMINA point). Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 43. If you are Unlucky, turn to 113.

166: You open the top of the largest jar. All of a sudden, a screeching bat flies out from within, clawing your face. Deduct 1 STAMINA point. The jar is empty. If you wish to now leave the room and take the right-hand door, turn to 110. If not, if you have not already done so, will you open the top of the middle-sized jar (turn to 115) or the smallest jar (turn to 29)?

167: The chest is locked. Its lock has been painted red. Do you have a red key? If so, turn to 15. If not, you may now search the Goblin's corpse if you have not done so already (turn to 125) or you may leave the room (turn to 156)?

168: The dead Troll crashes to the ground. After a quick search of its body, you find a silver key, a purse containing a total of 6 Gold Pieces, and some bread and cheese, enough for 1 Provision. Note down whatever you wish to take with you on your Adventure Sheet. You now walk back to the forking of the tunnel, and take the other tunnel. Turn to 178.

169: You cast the Fireball spell. Immediately, a roaring ball of flame flies out of your palm, striking the Kargoth. As it roars in pain, you cast the Earth spell, and vines suddenly grow from your hand, wrapping themselves around the Kargoth's tentacles. While it wildly tries to free itself from the vines, you cast the Wind spell, and with a howling shriek, a powerful wind suddenly begins to buffet the Kargoth. After this, you cast the Lightning spell, striking the Kargoth in the centre of its black, shiny head. It explodes into thousands of slimy pieces. You have slain the Kargoth. Turn to 196.

170: You notice a slight bulge near the bottom of the tapestry. You lift it up, and see that there is a small lever beneath. Intrigued, you pull the lever, and a block of stone falls to the ground. It looks like have found a secret compartment of some sort! If you wish to rummage around in the secret compartment for valuables, turn to 35. If not, return to 82 and make another choice.

171: This is a very large, forbidding cavern. Flaming torches hang on the walls, and several large, rabid rats scurry along the floor. At the far end of the cavern is a set of stone steps leading up to a wooden platform. An ornate throne, carved in the shape of an open-mouthed skull, is resting on the platform, and seated on the throne is an emaciated, evil-looking man with pale skin, long hair and sharp, filthy nails. He is swathed in black, flowing robes and a metal breastplate covers his torso. He holds a long, ebony-black staff in his gloved hands. This man is Valkor, a powerful necromancer, servant of the Shadow-Lord and Guardian of the Crypt. 

In front of the throne are four sarcophaguses. Suddenly, Valkor whispers some dark, unintelligible arcane words. With a resounding boom, the lids of the sarcophaguses are thrown off, and an armour-clad, mace-wielding Zombie steps out of each of them. Turn to 3.

172: The second Gargoyle crashes to the ground. In a few seconds, it has returned to stone. However, you decide to take one of the flame-swords, neither of which have turned to stone. It will add 1 to your Attack Strength, and every time you strike an opponent with it, you can Test your Luck to do extra damage. However, this is different from Testing your Luck to do extra damage in other battles. Instead of doing just 1 extra point of damage with a successful test, you do 1 die's worth of damage (which will result in your opponent losing 1-6 extra STAMINA points). Also, if you fail the LUCK test, you do the normal 2 points of damage, rather than 1. Finally, in places of complete darkness, the flame-sword will act as a torch. Gain 1 LUCK point for finding this powerful magical weapon, and then turn to 124.

173: You tug at the iron ring set in the trapdoor, and after a moment, the trapdoor swings open. All of a sudden, a roaring fireball flies out from the darkness within. With a quick cry of shock, you try to leap aside. Test your Skill. If you succeed, you get a slight burn (deduct 2 STAMINA points). If you are still alive, you see a rope in the darkness beyond the trapdoor. If you wish to climb down it, turn to 148. If not, you now decide to leave the torture-chamber and take the other door (turn to 68). If you fail, turn to 109.

174: You turn around. In front of you is a hefty Orc, grinning brutishly and displaying a set of filthy yellow teeth. At just over six feet, it is slightly taller than most of its kind, and a long scar runs from its forehead to its chin. In its right hand it clutches a club, no doubt the weapon it has just used to injure you. With a loud, barbaric battle-cry, it launches itself at you.

ORC					SKILL 8				  STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 24.

175: The stairs eventually end at a long hall. You are in the second level of the catacombs. The hall is wide, and the walls are covered with tapestries depicting battles between Elves and demons. You are surprised to see that the tapestries do not appear to be that old. At the far end of the hall are two doors. Turn to 82.

176: Blowing into the flute, you hear a strange whistle coming from within. You look up to see if it has any effect on the Demon-Knight, but it merely lets out a hollow laugh, and smashes the flute in half with a single blow of its battle-axe. Cross the wooden flute off your Adventure Sheet. Now your opponent is upon you. Turn to 30.

177: You are standing at the beginning of a massive, circular stone cavern. The walls of the cavern are lined by flaming torches. To your right is a door, and in front of you is a chasm. Spanning the chasm is a rope-bridge. At the far end of the cavern you see an iron-bound door. Will you open the door to your right (turn to 158) or will you cross the rope-bridge (turn to 31)?

178: The tunnel widens out after about sixty metres. Suddenly, you feel the ground give way underneath you. You realize that you are standing on a pit-trap! As you begin to fall, you desperately leap towards the edge of the pit, grasping at it wildly. Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 111. If you fail, turn to 49.

179: The tapestry has been woven skilfully, and the image of battle on the tapestry is disturbingly life-like. It is then that you notice a slight bulge in the tapestry. Lifting it, you see a loose flagstone. You pull out the stone, and find a small compartment in the wall. If you wish to reach your hand into the compartment, turn to 5. If not, return to 43.

180: 'The password is skulls.' You say. After a moment, the demon-knocker gives a gruff grunt of approval, and the door swings open soundlessly. You walk through it into a large chamber which appears to have been a torture-chamber of some kind. Apart from various different instruments of torture and punishment, the room is devoid of furnishing. Rather gruesomely, there is dried blood on all of the torture instruments, and some even have the splattered remains of organs on them. An intense feeling of nausea suddenly overcomes you. Test your Skill. If you are successful, turn to 198. If you are unsuccessful, turn to 189.

181: You step over the door, and into a large chamber which appears to have been a torture chamber of some kind. Apart from various different instruments of torture and punishment, the room is devoid of furnishing. Rather gruesomely, there is dried blood on all of the torture instruments, and some even have the splattered remains of organs on them. An intense feeling of nausea suddenly overcomes. Test your Skill. If you are successful, turn to 198. If you are unsuccessful, turn to 189. 

182: You fall over the tripwire, landing heavily on the floor. Suddenly, a spear flies out of the dark shadows of the hall on your right, straight towards you! It strikes you in the side. Lose 4 STAMINA points. If you are still alive after this, you stagger on. You now see that there is a pair of grand-looking double doors at the far end of the hall. Two statues of Gargoyles, standing on plinths of black stone, are flanking the double doors. They both wield torches in one stony hand. These torches are the only luminescence in the entire hall. Suddenly, to your surprise, the Gargoyles leap off their plinths, lumbering towards you slowly. You notice that their torches have transformed into flaming magical swords. You will have to fight these opponents. Turn to 20. 

183: You find a false opening in the back of the skull-throne. Within, you find a pouch containing 8 Gold Pieces, and a silver bell. You also find a scroll covered with strange symbols. If you have drunk a vial containing a strange green liquid, turn to 11. If not, you leave the scroll where it is, but decide to take the other items (note them down in your Adventure Sheet). Turn to 9.

184: The darts strike your neck. Immediately, pain shoots up your body. You fall to the ground, convulsing horribly as the poison of the darts begins to take effect. Your adventure is over.

185: Now you must Test your Luck to determine whether or not you make it to the door in time. If you are Lucky, you do. Turn to 63. If you are Unlucky, you are too slow, and wheel around to face the slime. Turn to 38.

186: Suddenly, a blazing fireball shoots out of the palm of your gauntlet-clad hand, striking the Beast-Hulk directly in the chest. With a horrible, chilling death-cry, it topples over and crashes to the ground. The monster lies still, and you know that it has been slain. At the same time, the gauntlet suddenly crumbles into dust (cross it off your Adventure Sheet). Turn to 64. 

187: You quickly search through the Orcs' clothing. Your search turns up 11 Gold Pieces, and a wooden flute. Note down whatever you wish to take with you on your Adventure Sheet. When you are done, turn to 61.

188: Passing under the archway, you feel a sudden magical fear seize you. The hallway is dimly-lit by a few torches, revealing skeletons strewn over the floor of the hall. In the centre of the hall, on a mound of skulls, is a long black casket, the torchlight bouncing off its polished surface. Turn to 140.

189: Unable to control yourself, you suddenly begin to gag uncontrollably (deduct 1 STAMINA point). For the next three battles you are in, you must deduct 1 from your Attack Strength. After regaining control of yourself, you decide to explore the torture-chamber. Turn to 134.

190: In front of you is a huge, high-vaulted chamber, lit by torches with magical blue flames. At the far end of the chamber is a black throne, flanked on either side by shadowy, mindless demon-beasts. Sitting on the throne is a three metre-tall armoured creature with bat-like wings and a long, spiked, scaly tail. A gleaming, horned black helm hides its rotting undead features from view. In front of the throne is a black-stoned altar, entwined by statues of hissing snakes, their sharp fangs dripping with venom. On the altar is the goal of your quest: the ebony Wand of Eldorn, tipped with silver and radiating powerful magic. You must turn to 126. 

191: The door creaks open noisily. You look around, wondering whether the noise has attracted any guards, but it appears it has not. You step through the door into a large room, lit by several flaming torches. The torchlight reveals the corpse of a Goblin lying over a chest. A scimitar lies by his side, and his eyes have rolled upwards. You wonder what could have killed him. Turn to 73. 

192: Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 170. If you are Unlucky, return to 82 and make another choice. 

193: Rummaging around in your pack frantically, you pull out the silver bell and gently ring it. The Demon-Knight lets out a cry of pain and agony, clutching its helm. Turn to 30 to fight this opponent, buy when you do so, you may deduct 2 points from its Attack Strength.

194: To your delight, you see a grey door half camouflaged in the wall behind the throne. However, you do not have time to celebrate. You run forward, flinging it open, and see an impossibly long set of stone steps leading upwards. You begin to climb them, making sure not to let the Wand of Eldorn be harmed. Turn to 200.

195: You walk over the tripwire unawares of the trap you would have set off had you fallen over it. You now see that there is a pair of grand-looking double doors at the far end of the hall. Two statues of Gargoyles, standing on plinths of black stone, are flanking the double doors. They both wield torches in one stony hand. These torches are the only luminescence in the entire hall. Suddenly, to your surprise, the Gargoyles leap off their plinths, lumbering towards you slowly. You notice that their torches have transformed into flaming magical swords. You will have to fight these opponents. Turn to 20.

196: The Kargoth has been slain. Gain 2 LUCK points for overcoming the guardian monster. You cross the bridge, striding towards the door at the far end of the cavern. Opening it, you see a nearly pitch-dark hall in front of you. You cautiously creep down it, weary of any further monsters, but it appears that there are none. At the far end of the hall is a set of double doors and you know that beyond them lie the Shadow-Lord and the goal of your quest. 

You may perform any action right now, such as drinking a potion, eating a Provision, etc. However, as you near the double doors, you see that they are locked, and the lock itself, bronze in colour, is surrounded by a ghostly green glow. You sense that this is a magical trap. If you have a bronze key, you know that there was a number etched on it. Multiply that number by 5 and turn to the new section. If you do not, turn to 128.

197: As you strike the killing blow, the Wraith emits a chilling, ear-splitting shriek, before dissolving into nothingness. You turn to leave the hall, but suddenly, there is a burst of bright white light, and an object begins to materialize in the air. You stand there, mouth open in silent awe. By the time the object has fully formed, you see that it is a large stone Warhammer. You can sense a powerful magical aura around it. The stone of the Warhammer is ebony-black. 

Engraved on the head of the Warhammer is the name: 'Shadowcrusher'. Shadowcrusher is an enchanted Warhammer that was fashioned by Dwarves, and it is especially effective against Undead and creatures of Darkness such as the Wraith you just defeated. You decide to take it along with you (note it down in your Adventure Sheet). Due to its magical power (as well as immense size), Shadowcrusher will do an extra point of damage against opponents if you wish to use it in combat. If you are using it against an Undead opponent, it does 2 extra points of damage. Also, if your Skill score is below 9, you must reduce 1 from your Attack Strength due to the weapon's weight. However, if your Skill score is above 9, you may add 1 to your Attack Strength whilst using it. If your Skill score is 9, there is no reduction or bonus in Attack Strength. Now turn to 2.

198: After a minute or so of heavy breathing and clutching your stomach while gritting your teeth, the feeling of nausea ends, and you now decide to explore the torture-chamber. Turn to 134.

199: The new path soon ends at a dead-end. As you are heading back however, you suddenly hear a roar in the distance. You head back and see a coil of rope lying on the path. You had not noticed it before. If you wish, you may keep the rope (note it down in your Adventure Sheet if this is what you wish to do). You now return and take the other path. Turn to 127.

200: For what seems like an eternity, you run up the steps, half-stumbling, terror gripping your heart as you realize that any moment the Wand of Eldorn could fall from your grasp and snap on the floor. Finally, you see an archway up ahead. Beyond it, you can see the trees of the Forest of Darkness. You leap through the archway, just as the steps are crushed by rubble. 

You lay there on the forest floor for what seems like hours, although it cannot be for more than a minute. Then, you rise on shaky legs. Behind you is debris, and in front of you tall, majestic oaks. You take in deep breaths of the cool night air. It takes you a few moments to realize that you have succeeded in your quest. Letting out a cheer, you stride home to Brookhaven, where no doubt the townspeople will be anxiously awaiting your return. Congratulations, you have won! 




