Legacy of the
 Vampire
     By
   Mark Lain




                 1

           Legacy of the Vampire
                                   © Mark Lain 2014

This adventure is a sequel/homage to Keith Martin's Count Heydrich adventures, Vault
Of The Vampire and Revenge Of The Vampire, originally published in the Puffin Fighting
Fantasy series as numbers 38 and 58 respectively. It is not necessary to have played
these books before playing Legacy Of The Vampire, but familiarity with the previous
books will allow the player to get more out of the experience and to pick up on cross-
references. I have intentionally tried to emulate Keith Martin's Heydrich adventures by
including references to Hammer Films and European vampire folklore, Skill and Faith
tests, and cheat-proofing. I have deliberately not included the Blood Points mechanic as,
in this third adventure, YOU are not knowingly trying to destroy Heydrich so it would
make less sense here.



Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on this competition
adventure, which comes complete with its own elaborate combat system and a score sheet
to record your progress. It is up to YOU to decide which routes to follow, which dangers
to risk and which foes to fight.




                                                                                       2

          CONTENTS



INTRODUCTION         4

ADVENTURE SHEET      8

BACKGROUND           9




                          3

                                  INTRODUCTION

You are about to take the lead role in an adventure that will make you into a living
legend, renowned and respected throughout the world. Before you take part in this quest,
you must first determine your own strengths and weaknesses. You use dice to work out
your initial SKILL, STAMINA, LUCK and FAITH scores. On page 8 is an Adventure
Sheet, which you may use to record details of your adventure. On it, you will find boxes
for recording your SKILL, STAMINA, LUCK and FAITH scores. Write your scores on
the Adventure Sheet in pencil so you can erase previous scores when you start again. You
may make photocopies of the sheet for use in future adventures.

Full details governing rules can be found in any of the Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks as
well as on the Official website: www.fightingfantasy.com.


                         SKILL, STAMINA, LUCK, and FAITH

To determine your Initial SKILL, STAMINA, LUCK, and FAITH scores:

     SKILL Roll one die. Add 6 to the number and enter this total in the SKILL box.

     STAMINA Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number and enter this total in the
        STAMINA box.

     LUCK Roll one die. Add 6 to the number and enter this total in the LUCK box.

     FAITH Roll one die. Add 3 to the number and enter this total in the FAITH box.


For reasons that will be explained below, all your scores will change constantly during
the adventure. You must keep an accurate record of these scores, and for this reason, you
are advised to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser handy. However, never rub
out your Initial scores, except on those very rare occasions when the text specifically tells
you so.

Although you may be rewarded additional SKILL, STAMINA, LUCK and FAITH
points, these totals may never exceed your initial Scores, except on very rare occasions,
when you will instructed on a particular page. SKILL reflects your general expertise in
fighting and combat; the higher the better. STAMINA reflects your general constitution,
your overall will to survive, your determination and overall fitness; the higher your
STAMINA score, the longer you will be able to survive. LUCK indicates how naturally
lucky a person you are. Luck ­ and Magic ­ are facts of life in the fantasy world you are
about to explore. FAITH is a measure of your ability to deal with unsettling or disturbing
situations but this could lead to potentially good or bad outcomes as there will be times
when too much faith may attract evil or cause you to be easily led astray.




                                                                                           4

                                         BATTLES
During your adventure, you will often come across pages in the book, which instruct you
to fight a creature of some sort. An option to flee may be given, but if not ­ or if choose
to attack the creature anyway ­ you must resolve the battle as described below.
6
First, record the opponent's SKILL and STAMINA scores in the first empty Encounter
box on your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each opponent or creature are given in the
book each time you have an encounter. You should also make a note of any special
abilities or instructions, which are unique to that particular opponent.

The sequence of combat is then:
1. Roll two dice for your opponent. Add its SKILL score. This total is the opponents
Attack Strength.
2. Roll two dice for yourself. Add the number rolled to your current SKILL score. This
total is your Attack Strength.
3. If your Attack Strength is higher than your opponent's is, you have wounded it.
Proceed to step 4. If your opponent's Attack Strength is higher than yours is, it has
wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other's blows ­ start the next Attack Round from steps 1 above.
4. You have wounded your opponent; so subtract 2 points from its STAMINA score. You
may use LUCK here to do additional damage (see below). Proceed to step 6.
5. Your opponent has wounded you; so subtract 2 points from your STAMINA score.
You may use LUCK to reduce the loss of STAMINA (see below). Proceed to step 6.
6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either your opponents or your own STAMINA
scores (and your LUCK score if you used LUCK ­ see over).
7. Begin the next Attack Round, starting again at step 1 with your current SKILL score.
This sequence continues until the STAMINA score of either you or your opponent
reaches zero (death). If your opponent dies, you are free to continue with your adventure.
If you die, your adventure ends and you must start all over again by creating a new
character.

                                           LUCK
At various times during your adventure, either in battles or when you come across other
situations in which you could either be Lucky or Unlucky (details of these are given in
the relevant pages themselves), you may use LUCK to make the outcome more
favourable to you. However, beware! Using LUCK is a risky business and, if you are
unlucky, the results could be disastrous.
The procedure for Testing your Luck is as follows: roll two dice. If the number rolled is
less than or equal to your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and the outcome
will be in your favour. If the number rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and will be penalised.
Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point from your current LUCK score.
Thus, you will soon realise that, the more you rely on your LUCK, the more risky this
procedure will become.




                                                                                         5

                               USING LUCK IN BATTLES
In battles, you always have the option of using your LUCK either to score a more serious
wound on an opponent you have just wounded or to minimise the effects of a wound you
have just received.

If you have just wounded an opponent: you may Test your Luck as described above. If
you are Lucky, you have inflicted a severe wound; deduct an extra 2 points from your
opponent's STAMINA score. However, if you are Unlucky, however, your blow only
scratches your opponent, and you deduct only 1 point from your opponent's STAMINA
(instead of scoring the normal 2 points of damage, you now only score 1).

If the opponent has wounded you: you may Test your Luck to try to minimise the
wound. If you are Lucky, your opponent's blow only grazes you; deduct only 1 point
from your STAMINA. If you are Unlucky, your wound is a serious one and you must
deduct 1 extra STAMINA point (i.e., a total of 3 points from your own STAMINA).
Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your LUCK score each time you Test your
Luck.

                                            Skill
Your SKILL score will not change much during the course of your adventure.
Occasionally a paragraph may give you instructions to increase or decrease your SKILL
score, but it may not exceed its Initial value unless you are specifically instructed to the
contrary.
There may be times during your adventure when you will be told to Test your Skill. The
procedure for this is the same as that for Testing your Luck: roll two dice. If the number
rolled is less than or equal to your current SKILL score, you have succeeded in your test
and the result will go in your favour. If the number rolled is higher than your current
SKILL score, you have failed the test and will have to suffer the consequences. However,
unlike Testing your Luck, do not subtract 1 point from your SKILL each time you Test
your Skill. Your SKILL score can never exceed its initial value unless specifically
instructed on a page.

                                           Luck
Additions to your LUCK score may be awarded in the adventure when you have been
particularly lucky or created your own luck by some other action. Details are given,
where appropriate, in the paragraphs of the book. Remember that, as with SKILL and
STAMINA, your LUCK score may never exceed its initial value unless specifically
instructed on a page.

                                         Provisions
Everyone knows that food is vital as a form of sustenance. Venturing into any adventure
may prove arduous indeed; therefore you need food just to keep your strength up. Any
time you eat a meal, you may restore 4 lost STAMINA points, except during combat or
when performing any other similar action. You start the adventure with only 3
Provisions, but there may be opportunities during your quest to find more.




                                                                                          6

                                     EQUIPMENT
You will start your adventure with a bare minimum of equipment, but you may find other
items during your travels. You have your trusty short sword at your belt and a backpack
to hold your Provisions and any other items you may come across.




                                                                                      7

8

                                      BACKGROUND

You are a lawyer by trade, although you have previous training as part of Salamonis' vast
army which means you know how to handle a blade should the need ever arise and, even
after ten years in the legal business, you still always make certain to carry a short sword
just in case you should need to defend yourself in the unsafe streets of Allansia's
townships.

Nowadays though, you much prefer the minutiae and detail (not to mention the relatively
safe and lucrative nature) of legal bureaucracy and, only a fortnight ago, an interesting
case was presented to you by the cherva who acts as your personal assistant. As a result,
you have sought passage on a merchant ship from Allansia to the Old World ­ a journey
that has taken the best part of the past two weeks and, you have noted in your journal,
you cannot help feeling a sensation of having travelled from the West of Titan to the East
as there are noticeable differences in both the land and the peoples of the Old World.

The case is that of twin sisters Ingrid and Angharad Heydrich, who have lately inherited a
run-down castle and its grounds in Mortvania, the region where, several generations ago,
the Heydrich family is said to originally hail from. The deeds for the castle are very
limited in their content, giving little indication of its having ever served any real purpose
as a seat of power or defence. No names of previous owners are listed and this seems
very odd to your thorough legal mind, although there is a detailed plan of the building's
footprint and its adjoining land, plus there is a sketch of how grand the building must
once have been. The only documentation attached to suggest any former inhabitants is
heavily defaced, the edges singed as if it may once have been saved from a fire. Indeed,
amongst the scant records is a yellowed bill poster telling (in an almost celebratory tone)
of how the castle was finally put to the torch ending "once and for all" the "evil that
resided there". You cannot help smiling at the luridness of this description and reflect on
how superstitious people were only a century or so ago. You know little of Mortvania
yourself, it being a very remote area to the North that you have never had cause to visit
until now, although you have heard old wives' tales and stories from those who have
ventured that far North of how, even now, the locals, especially the older generations,
cross themselves whenever the ruined castle is mentioned.

You have received word by letter that the twins intend to meet you at an inn close to the
castle, from whence you intend to travel together to view the remains of the building
itself, followed by your formally handing-over ownership to them. This should be a fairly
routine conveyancing task for which you will charge your usually extortionate fee of 500
Gold Pieces. You anticipate that the entire case will take you no more than three days'
work, which is how long you have taken a room at the inn for. You pack the relevant
documents and take a mailcoach North to rendez-vous at the inn at the agreed time.

It is a full day's ride to reach your destination, so you take the opportunity to re-read the
deeds and plans of the castle. You doubt there will be any scope to renovate the building
without huge financial outlay, but the land that it comes with could be exploited for
growing crops. You are about to fold the papers and return them to your leather satchel



                                                                                            9

when a small folded piece of paper catches your eye in the bottom of your bag. You
surmise that this must have been amongst the damaged documents and had slipped out as
you withdrew them. From the discolouration and staining you guess that this paper is
rather older than the rest and little is decipherable other than the name Siegfried which
appears several times. The mailcoach suddenly lurches to the left and you feel it come to
a halt. The driver opens the door, lowers the iron access step, and offers you his hand to
help you down. You fold the papers away hurriedly and take the driver's hand as you step
from the coach. Night has already fallen and a heavy fog is descending that prevents you
from seeing very far and you cannot distinguish anything other than the glow of an oil
lamp that shines over the main entrance to the inn, its light piercing through the fog,
casting weird shadows as the flame flickers. You take a quick look around as you take the
few strides to the entrance and you are convinced that you can make out the glossy sheen
of a pair of silver lupine eyes in the fog beyond the coach. You tell yourself that this is
merely the lamplight reflecting in the moist air and pass through the entrance into the inn
where the twins are sat waiting for you at a table close to the door.

NOW TURN OVER




                                                                                         10

                                               1
The twins introduce themselves to you and bid you sit and join them. The landlord comes
over to the table and sets down three plates of meat, a bowl of vegetables, and three mugs
of ale. You all dig in enthusiastically and agree that the food is excellent, surprisingly so
for such a remote location. You chat amongst yourselves idly about your journeys and
you begin to feel very relaxed in the twins' company as they are talkative and outgoing.
Angharad explains that she is the younger of the two by three minutes and she comes
across as the more boisterous and youthful of the two, although they are both undeniably
striking to look at, especially their eyes, which are almost hypnotically deep blue in
colour. You also notice that both twins have small tattoos of stylised rabbit's heads on
their right wrists, presumably a symbol of sisterhood.
You try to keep the conversation as general as possible (tomorrow is when the serious
business will begin) but the twins' sociability is infectious and they frequently ask
questions about the background to their inheritance and how the family ever came to live
in such a place as Mortvania.
Will you remain coy and avoid the subject? Turn to 135
Or do you tell them what you know of the myths surrounding their ancestry? Turn to 76

                                               2
You both appear on the landing at the same moment so you lead the way down the stone
stairs and out through the front door which, you note, is unlocked.
Looking about from the small turning circle that is marked out in the mud at the front of
the inn from many previous coaches that have terminated their journeys here and turned
back, you catch sight of a female figure dressed in a nightgown heading into the night
mists in the direction of the ruins. You take this to be the missing twin and do not hesitate
in grabbing Ingrid and making off briskly in pursuit of what you hope is Angharad. The
figure appears to be travelling at normal walking pace yet, no matter how fast Ingrid and
yourself move, you do not seem to be gaining on it.
You follow in vain for some time until the mist begins to thin out and you see your
quarry opening the gates to the castle... this makes you stop dead in your tracks and
Ingrid stops behind you equally suddenly. The gate is at the exact location where the gap
in the ruin wall was earlier today. Not just that, rather more startlingly, the perimeter wall
is clean and a large three-storey castle stands where only a few hours ago there was
merely rubble and plant-cover. The entire building has somehow re-constituted itself,
exactly how the illusory castle looked in your nightmare last night! You pinch yourself,
but this is no dream that you can awaken yourself from. The castle really is there and the
figure you are pursuing has opened the gate, gone down the main driveway, and is now
making to open the large front door to the castle itself.
Ingrid is totally confused by what you are both witnessing and her baffled expression is
confirmation that it is not you alone who is seeing this. The figure you were following
turns towards you and you see that there is no doubt that it is Angharad. She looks about,
sweeps her hair to one side confidently, and opens the front door. Light streams from
inside as she enters the castle and closes the door behind her.
You and Ingrid agree to approach the castle as Angharad must be in danger. As you pass
through the gates you see a plaque on the left gate pillar which reads `Castle Heydrich'.
You hold hands, your palms damp with the sweat of fear, and you both walk carefully



                                                                                            11

down the driveway to the main door. Thankfuly, nothing befalls you on the drive and you
reach the door safely, if undeniably worried. A stone arch over the entrance reads
`Mortus Mansion' which seems curious, but this oddity is insignificant compared to the
simple fact that the castle has somehow re-appeared and you try to ignore the name
change, in spite of your recollection of the morphing plaque from last night's terrible
dream, which you are now re-living.
The door opens easily into a marble-floored corridor running from west to east. You have
no indication of which direction Angharad may have taken, so you decide that you will
take one corridor whilst Ingrid explores the other.
Will you head west (turn to 71) or east (turn to 27)?

                                              3
The three of you return to the safety of the inn where the innkeeper seems surprised at
your return:
`No-one goes out in the fog around these parts as wants to see another dawn,' he states
ominously and the few other locals in the inn nod in mumbled agreement. You consider
yourself lucky to avoided whatever real or imagined horror they are alluding to, but also
secretly laugh to yourself at their foolish superstitions.
You spend the remainder of the day poring over documents relating to the inheritance
with the twins, who by nightfall have grown bored. Night, incidentally, has fallen rather
earlier than it did yesterday. The twins announce that they are turning in for the night
after you have all eaten a small meal. You also decide to retire to your room. Turn to 123

                                              4
The innkeeper serves a hearty breakfast of eggs, sliced meats and pungent cheeses,
washed down with white wine. The twins are chatting excitedly about finally getting to
see their inheritance today and about the disappointment of yesterday's abortive outing.
Do you wish to share your dream with them? If so, turn to 82. If not, turn to 147

                                              5
Entranced by the constantly revolving arachnid, your vision starts to cloud and an
imposing yet dapper face forms out of the mesmeric haze. The face is that of a man of
indeterminate age with black hair slicked into a widow's peak at the front. The vision's
red eyes stare intently at you and its lips move to speak in a commanding voice:
`Leave this place, fool. The girl is mine. Leave now, while the blood still pumps fresh in
your veins.'
Lose 1 Faith point for the shock of this vision of evil. If you still wish to proceed along
the corridor, turn to 62. If you would rather head back to the original north corridor via
the dark room, turn to 29

                                              6
`Hmm, very nice. Very nice indeed. I swear I've seen one like this around the place
before, but it's handy to have one myself. Very useful around here, these are,' he says,
taking the stake from you. `You can go now. I forgive you your indiscretion.' You infer
from his words that you may live to regret surrendering this object. Lose 1 Luck point.
The man gestures you out and you now carry on along the corridor. Turn to 131



                                                                                           12

                                               7
The old man's room is filled with scientific instruments and various herbs used in the
preparation of potions and remedies. You cannot find any pre-made concoctions, but you
do discover some healing herbs which will add 2 Stamina points when applied to any
wounds (there is enough for one use only) and some garlic flowers which you can take if
you wish. You must now leave the room and continue along the corridor before the
Doctor's death at your hands is discovered. Turn to 131

                                               8
Roll on die, adding 2 to the roll as you are still shaken from the horror that you have just
witnessed.
If you roll under your current Faith score, turn to 19
If the roll is higher than your current Faith score, turn to 125

                                               9
You grip Angharad by the shoulders and shake her vigorously, but she still does not
respond. No sooner have you released her and she turns back towards the window and a
vague smile appears on her lips as the insects rise from her face as one and hover over her
head briefly before consolidating themselves into a single mass which takes the rough
form of a large black bat. Turn to 44

                                              10
The twins also seem keen to go off and look around on their own so you part company,
agreeing to meet up again at the remains of the gateway before sundown.
You wander aimlessly around the ruins alone for what seems like ages, getting quite
bored as you measure up what is nothing more than rubble and collapsed stonework. A
general examination of the plants that have taken root in the gaps in the mortar of the
walls produces some tiny garlic flowers, which you can take if you want to.

Test Your Skill
If you succeed, turn to 114
If you fail, turn to 166

                                              11
The creature's plaintive cries begin to affect you and you feel tears welling-up in your
eyes as your grip loosens allowing the creature to pull the stake from its chest. Blood
gushes from the wound, spattering over your face and getting in your eyes. Before you
get the chance to clear your vision, the creature turns your attack on you, plunging the
stake deep into your heart. You cough up mouthfuls of blood and her manically smiling
face is the last thing you see. Your adventure ends here.




                                                                                          13

                                              12
You walk along the landing, treading as softly as you can to avoid arousing anyone's
suspicions, and tiptoe down the stone steps into the main bar area, which is in total
darkness. The sound of snoring comes from one area of the room and you assume this
must be the landlord asleep at a table or perhaps slumped in a corner.
There is nothing of interest here, and the darkness is making you uncomfortable, so you
carefully head back upstairs and return to your room. Turn to 145

                                              13
The painting is labelled Katarina Heydrich and is of an unnaturally young-looking
woman with dark eyes, long flowing black hair, and a seductive figure. You are taken
aback with the realisation of how physically similar the woman in the picture is to the
twins, particularly to Ingrid who is easily the less innocent-looking of the two. Other than
this striking resemblance, the painting is uninteresting.
Will you now take a closer look at the picture of a suave-looking man (turn to 36), or a
very faded and damaged painting (turn to 144)? Or, if the pictures do not have any appeal
to you, you return to the east corridor (turn to 89)

                                              14
Your will has held fast so far. Why run now when faced with something slightly out of
the ordinary? Add 1 Faith point for your resolute bravery. You stand silently in the
darkness and wait to see what is going to happen.
After a few minutes that seem like a lifetime due to the tension, you see a small pair of
bright red lights appear in the far corner of the room. They dart up and down briefly,
before slowly making their way towards you. As they get closer you see them shedding a
small amount of hellish red light onto a pair of bizarre candy-striped spindly legs. The
darkness makes this sight all the more macabre as the shape approaches you. Soon it is so
close that you can feel its warm sickly breath on your neck.
Suddenly, the room explodes with light and, as you eyes try to adjust, you catch brief
snatches of the most hideous and perverse form you have ever seen.

Roll three dice:
If you roll higher than your current Stamina, turn to 35. If the roll is lower than your
current Stamina, turn to 137

                                              15
Feeling a little foolish, you hold the sweetmeat in front of you at arm's length, hoping
this might act as an offering of some sort. You prepare yourself for what awaits you on
the other side of the door. Turn to 148

                                              16
Although the building and its nameplate do not maintain either particular form long
enough for your eyes to focus on one or the other, you cannot help but notice one
constant feature that holds its position regardless of the shape of the building: a central
window on the third floor has an intense and oddly welcoming warm glow coming from
it. You fix your eyes on the window, trying to ignore the amorphous constructs that



                                                                                           14

surround it. A figure appears at the window dressed in black fineries, its arm beckoning
you towards it.

Test Your Luck
If you succeed, turn to 140
If you fail, turn to 112

                                              17
In spite of the cold and probably against your better judgement, the three of you continue
onwards deeper into the fog... which is a serious mistake. Your scepticism led you to
believe there was no such thing as vampires, less still the possibility of the existence of a
rarer semi-ghost species, the Mist Vampires, which use the cover of dense fogs such as
this to capture their prey. You have strayed into their trap together and your foolishness
has caused not only you, but also two innocent young women, to die a terrible death.
Your adventure ends here, disastrously, and in utter failure.

                                              18
After this evening's unwelcome surprise sleep does not come easily, but you do
eventually drift off and you begin to dream:

It is early morning and you are making your way to the site of the ruins. A dense fog, not
unlike that which you experienced just this morning, makes your route hazy and
indistinct, yet you press on undaunted. After many hours of endless trudging along
several indirect routes, you come to the location marked on the castle deeds. Looking up
through the fog, you are stunned to see, not ruins, but a large three-level castle in almost
perfect repair as if it had been built very recently. You drawn involuntarily towards the
building which, as you get closer, seems to be morphing between two different shapes,
almost as if it were alive. One moment it takes the shape of a castle, the next is assumes
that of a large opulent manor house. Both forms are fluid and the building changes
between the two shapes over and over in front of you. Could this be an illusion caused by
the fog, making the definition of the building unclear? As you get to the entrance you see
a nameplate screwed onto the left gateway pillar: `Mortus Mansion' it reads... or does it?
Not only is the building seemingly amorphous, but also the letters on the nameplate
dance and change shape at will as you stare. One minute it reads `Mortus Mansion', yet
then it seems to say `Castle Heydrich'.

Turn to 16

                                              19
After several minutes of feeling around in the darkness, your hand strikes a small lever in
the far wall and a hidden doorway opens inwards into a corridor from which light floods.
Will you step through into this new corridor? Turn to 67
Or have you had enough shocks and wish to return to the main corridor? Turn to 48




                                                                                           15

                                             20
You raise the stake and lunge at her chest.

Test Your Skill
If you succeed, turn to 139
If you fail, turn to 95

                                             21
You remain where you are for five minutes, but Angharad shows no sign of movement.
She is clearly in a trance of some sort and you decide it would be wise to intervene in
case she is in any danger. Turn to 50

                                             22
You slip between the luxurious sheets and drift into a deep sleep. You begin to dream a
dream of such clarity that it could almost be real:

You hear footsteps approaching the bed and the curtains are drawn back to reveal two
beautiful young women standing smiling at you. You suddenly realise that it is the twins
who stand before you and you greet them with relieved enthusiasm. They do not respond,
but their eyes are hypnotic and you feel yourself drawn towards them. They both clamber
onto the bed and begin to seduce you.

You awaken unexpectedly to see that there is no-one there, yet the sheets writhe and
move around clearly female outlines. A sudden sharp pain in your neck is followed by a
trickle of warm sticky blood, your blood, flowing from a pair of small round puncture
wounds. You have been duped by the vampyre twins that now serve the master of this
house and you will soon join them as his minion. You have failed miserably.

                                             23
You climb into bed and you quickly slip into a deep sleep, still tired from the past few
days.
Suddenly, you are rudely awoken by an urgent and frenzied hammering on your door.
`Are you awake, lawyer? Please let me in.'
The voice is that of Ingrid and, slightly confused as to whether this is a dream or reality,
you pull back the covers, step out of bed, and go to the door.
On turning the handle you are greeted by a tearful and frantic-looking Ingrid:
`I couldn't sleep so I went to see Angharad for comfort. She didn't answer her door when
I knocked and I know she always sings herself to sleep like our mother used to when we
were young so I tried the door and she wasn't in her room. The bed was disturbed as if
she had been in it and the window was wide open. We have to find her, it's totally unlike
her to do anything or go anywhere without letting me know first. I'm really at my wits'-
end.'
You decide you cannot refuse the distraught Ingrid your help, and it also occurs to you
that you will not complete your business on schedule if one of the twins is not available
to deal with the remaining formalities. You agree to help Ingrid find her sister and




                                                                                           16

arrange to meet downstairs at the inn entrance in ten minutes, enough time to dress,
collect your backpack, and arm yourself. Turn to 2

                                             24
Gripping on-another's hands tightly you all step forward, carefully making your way
through the fog. After another ten metres of walking, the air becomes freezing cold and
you are sure you can hear disjointed voices, whispering on the icy wind, telling you to
turn back.
Will you return with the twins to the inn? Turn to 3
Or do you all press on? Turn to 17

                                             25
The silver box opens easily and inside is a pheasant made from marchpane. You can take
this with you if you wish ­ it will count as 1 Provision if you eat it at any point.
You can now either leave the room (turn to 141), or if you have not done so already, you
could try the light brown liquid (turn to 127),or try the red liquid (turn to 31)

                                             26
In spite of the cold and probably against your better judgement, you continue onwards
deeper into the fog... which is a serious mistake. Your scepticism led you to believe there
was no such thing as vampires, less still the possibility of the existence of a rarer semi-
ghost species, the Mist Vampires, which use the cover of dense fogs such as this to
capture their prey. You have strayed into their trap together and your foolishness has
caused you to die a terrible death. Your adventure ends here and you will never learn if
the twins got back to the inn safely or not.

                                             27
You tell Ingrid you intend to take the east corridor and she agrees to head west. You wish
one-another good luck and set off in opposite directions. The corridor is well-maintained
with beautifully carved dark wood wall panelling and a highly-polished marble floor with
a lush dark red carpet running up its central section, presumably to protect the expensive-
looking flooring. The walls are dotted with burning torches mounted in alabaster
cornices.
After only a few metres, you find a door set in the left hand wall. The carpet branches off
to reach the door as well as continuing down the corridor.
Will you try this door? Turn to 129
Or would you rather press on along the corridor? Turn to 89




                                                                                           17

                                               28
You explain that a combination of the long journey and the generally eerie nature of this
region are making it difficult for you to get to sleep and she smiles sympathetically.
`I know the feeling. That's why I was singing the old lullaby that my late grandmother
used to sing to Ingrid and I every night at bedtime when we were little. Shall I sing it for
you? It might help you settle.'
Do you encourage her to sing the song? Turn to 142
Or would you rather just apologise for the intrusion and head back to your own room?
Turn to 68

                                               29
You waste no time in running back along the dusty corridor and opening the door into the
pitch black room. You hesitate briefly to see if anything untoward is about to happen and
to your relief, nothing does. You head through the darkness in a straight line to where you
anticipate the door to be and reach forward to fumble for the handle. As your hand
touches the cold metal of what must be the handle an incredible pain darts up your arm.
Lose 3 Stamina points for this powerful electric shock. If you are still alive, you turn the
handle and are immensely pleased to see the clean, marble and wood north corridor that
you originally came from. Turn to 48

                                               30
You pull the object easily from the earth and it reveals itself to be a sharp silver stake in
remarkably good condition considering how long it must have rested here. You can take
it if you wish. Now turn to 166

                                               31
You take a mouthful of the red liquid, which is thick and leaves an aftertaste of iron in
your mouth. You have just drunk some virgin's blood, not a surprising find in a building
surrounded by legends such as those of Castle Heydrich! Lose 1 Luck and 1 Faith point
and turn to 141 as you leave the storeroom in disgust.

                                               32
Although you are aware of the perceived implications of multiple wounds from a
lycanthrope, your rejection of this superstitious nonsense quickly clears any fears from
your mind, enabling you to fight on. Return to 46 and resolve the combat with the
Werewolf, but if it inflicts a fourth wound on you, turn immediately to 73

                                               33
The drawer slides open and is empty other than a small gold filigree crucifix, which you
can take if you wish. There is little else of interest in this room so you decide to go back
to the corridor. Turn to 86

                                               34
You hesitate a little as you step into the room and feel yourself being grasped by a pair of
clammy hands. You realise too late that you are being thrown to the ground by a hideous
Ghoul, the final trap laid by Reiner Heydrich to prevent anyone from entering his inner



                                                                                            18

sanctum. The Ghoul clambers onto your back and begins to bite into your clean flesh.
Your death will not be quick, but is preferable to the endless undeath of a vampire's bite.

                                              35
The sheer enormity of this situation is too much for you. In your military days, you may
have had the strength to cope with whatever it is you are now faced with, but years sat
behind a desk poring over papers does not put you in good stead for the intensity of the
terror you now feel. Your heart gives out and you collapse in convulsions. Perhaps the
creature might feast on your remains, perhaps not. Either way, you will never find out.
Your adventure ends here.

                                              36
The label on the picture tells you that the suave man is none other than Reiner Heydrich,
the twins' ancestor about whom so much myth and seemingly scandalous slander
abounds. As you examine the image you notice how intense the man's flaring eyes are
and there is no doubt that this was a man of some presence and bearing with his baryonic
cape, contrasted against a pure white chemise, along with hair that is slicked into a
widow's peak. You stand transfixed for several minutes simply staring into the picture's
eyes. Suddenly a deep voice resonates around the room: `GET OUT!' it commands and
you are both mentally and physically shaken by its sheer force. Lose 1 Faith point. You
run from the room and back out into the corridor. Turn to 89

                                              37
You say her name softly yet audibly, but Angharad does not respond.
Will you try approaching her? Turn to 50
Or would you rather wait and see what happens next? Turn to 21

                                              38
The brew tastes even worse than it smells, but is incredibly invigorating and you feel
yourself becoming healthier than you have ever felt. Increase your Stamina to its initial
level, adding 1 additional point to your initial Stamina for the incredible effects of the
concoction. You thank the man and take your leave, bidding him farewell as you return to
the corridor. Turn to 131

                                              39
You hold the crucifix at arm's-length in your left hand to ward off any undead that may
be on the other side of the door. Turn to 55

                                              40
`Garlic flowers. Very useful,' he says. `These are a key ingredient in a herbal remedy I
am quite adept at preparing. If you will wait awhile I shall cook some up and you can
heal any wounds you may have?' he offers. Will you stay (turn to 78) or make your
excuses and leave (turn to 149)?




                                                                                          19

                                             41
You reach into your pocket and draw out a handful of the garlic blooms. `Do you plan to
prepare luncheon with those, lawyer?' she taunts, `Garlic is for cooking, after all.'
Will you now approach her (turn to 152), attack her (turn to 121), or raise a gold filigree
crucifix (if you haven't already done so) (turn to 109)?

                                             42
The old man smiles in a friendly manner and invites you into his room. He explains that
his name is Dr Henrik Karlov, an expert in herblore. Once he was an assassin, using his
knowledge of potions to kill, but he has more recently turned to a quieter life making
herbal remedies. You tell him how you came to be in the castle and he offers to make you
something to help you. Do you accept this offer? If so, turn to 78. If you would rather
take your leave of the old man and return to the corridor, turn to 131

                                             43
The paintings are well-executed and cover a variety of scenes. There are forests, the inn
where you are staying, a single stone monolith, several internal and external views of a
stagecoach, and a bizarre image of 8 Gold Pieces organised into the shape of a crude
horse that someone has scrawled the words "NO WAY FORWARD ­ GIVE UP NOW"
across in blood (perhaps Angharad wrote this as a warning to you?) Each painting is
signed in the bottom right corner with the word "Martin" and either the number 38 or 58
in a circle, presumably the years they were painted. Other than the chilling warning, the
paintings are unremarkable.
To now investigate the bed turn to 157, or to leave the room turn to 86

                                             44
The insect-bat formation rises up to the ceiling where it morphs into what is more akin to
an actual bat, but with a fly-like head on what is otherwise now the fully-formed body of
a huge bat. It swops down swiftly to attack you. Angharad remains in her trance and
therefore can provide no assistance during this combat:

              INSECTIVOROUS BAT ABOMINATION SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 159

                                             45
Test Your Skill
If you succeed, turn to 49
If you fail, turn to 153

                                             46
You extinguish the single candle that lights your room and try to empty your head of
thoughts.
After some considerable tossing and turning you are awoken by an almighty shattering
sound, followed by the thud of four heavy paws on the wooden floorboards of your room.
The covers of your bed are torn away and a large Werewolf leaps onto the bed in attack.
You must fight, but as you do not have your sword to hand, you must reduce your Skill


                                                                                          20

by 2 for this hand-to-claw combat with this creature that has literally leapt in through the
window:

                              WEREWOLF SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

If the Werewolf wounds you more than three times, turn to 100
If you win, turn to 96

                                              47
The sight that greets you as you open the door and enter the room beyond fills you with
both joy and despair. Standing in the centre of the room is Angharad, resplendent in a
sheer white dress akin to a wedding gown. She faces away from you with her arms raised
in the air, the sleeves of her dress draping down in such a manner that they could almost
resemble a bat's wings. The floor is covered with a mauve deep-pile carpet and black
candles run around the perimeter of the room, burning with such bright flames that they
create a square border of magnesium-white light that is blinding to look directly at. You
focus your eyes directly on the far wall where you see Ingrid suspended from the ceiling
beam by a thick rope which binds her wrists. She is squirming to try to free herself which
is causing friction burns on her lower arms. Tears stream from her eyes and her face is
white with fear. As she sees you, she cries out your name and begs you to save her. As
she does this, Angharad spins around to face you, her eyes red and menacing. She
advances on you, her arms still raised like wings and, as she draws closer, her heads arcs
back and she opens her mouth wide to reveal two sets of white teeth, the upper canines of
which are elongated and pointed.

Roll two dice and compare the result to your current Faith score. If the roll is lower, turn
to 160. If the roll is higher, turn to 88

                                              48
The corridor continues forwards for just under one hundred yards, before turning sharply
to the right. You follow the corridor around the corner and very soon it ends at a large
wide staircase that leads downwards. Looking beyond the staircase, you can see that
another corridor comes from the far side and meets yours at the top of the stairs. You can
see light muddy footprints on the carpet running from the far corridor and down the
stairs. You begin to descend, hoping that you are following Ingrid's footsteps. Turn to
116

                                              49
Amongst the filthy and blood-stained straw that lines the floor of the chamber you notice
something glinting and it clangs musically as you push your sword about in the straw. On
further investigation, the object is made of metal and, as you pull it from the straw, you
reveal a skilfully wrought sword. The sword has magical properties and adds 1 to your
Skill when used in combat. It also allows you to fight any undead that you may otherwise
be unable to wound if using a normal un-enchanted weapon. Add 1 Luck point for your
find.
You now approach the door in the opposite wall to that through which you entered the
chamber. Turn to 65


                                                                                           21

                                               50
You approach Angharad and gently tap her on the shoulder. There is no reaction from her
so you decide to grab her and pull her away from the window in case she is somehow in
danger. As you turn her around you are horrified to see that her face is covered with a
mass of swarming flies. She seems blissfully unaware of this, however, and simply stares
vacantly at you.
Will you try to shake her out of her trance? Turn to 9
Or do you brush the flies away from her face? Turn to 119

                                               51
You tell the twins to return to the inn and that you intend to continue onwards to explore
the assess castle that they have inherited. The twins plead with you not to go on any
further.
Do you listen and return with them to the inn? Turn to 3
Or are you determined to carry on through the fog? Turn to 26

                                               52
What will you offer the old man:
                                     A silver stake? Turn to 6
                                     Some garlic flowers? Turn to 40
                                     A marchpane pheasant? Turn to 75
                                     The deeds to the castle? Turn to 54
                                     A gold filigree crucifix? Turn to 64
                                     Nothing. You simply take your leave? Turn to 118

                                               53
You begin to sing the lullaby that you heard Angharad singing at the inn the other night.
She stops sobbing and looks longingly at you, her former innocent appearance returning
to her face. She opens her mouth to thank you and, as she does, her elongated canines
retract back into her gums and the crazed bloodlust finally disappears from her eyes. You
are truly amazed by what happens next.
Angharad stands up and begins to writhe as if somehow struggling with herself internally.
She screams in pain, but then stops screaming as quickly as she had started. She sighs
with relief as the outline of a tall man appears around her and she seems to have literally
forced the man's form out of her body. A spectral presence now stands between
Angharad and yourself. The form begins to speak:
`Well, well, lawyer. So you've succeeded in freeing the child from my influence. For that
you will forfeit your own existence by playing host to Reiner Heydrich, Prince of
Darkness and Perpetual Overlord of Mortvania.'
Heydrich's essence launches itself at you.
Do you have a magic sword? If so, turn to 58. If not, turn to 151




                                                                                          22

                                              54
The old man rifles through the documents with indifference.
`Are you hoping to bore me to death?' he mocks. `These are useless to me. I am an
apothecary, not an archivist. Take them back and get out of my sight. I'm not wasting one
more minute on an idiot like you.' He thrusts the papers back in your hands.
Do you respond by attacking him (turn to 81) or apologise and leave the room (turn to
118)?

                                              55
The sight that greets you as you open the door and enter the room beyond fills you with
both joy and despair. Standing in the centre of the room is Angharad, resplendent in a
sheer white dress akin to a wedding gown. She faces away from you with her arms raised
in the air, the sleeves of her dress draping down in such a manner that they could almost
resemble a bat's wings. The floor is covered with a mauve deep-pile carpet and black
candles run around the perimeter of the room, burning with such bright flames that they
create a square border of magnesium-white light that is blinding to look directly at. You
focus your eyes directly on the far wall where you see Ingrid suspended from the ceiling
beam by a thick rope which binds her wrists. She is squirming to try to free herself which
is causing friction burns on her lower arms. Tears stream from her eyes and her face is
white with fear. As she sees you, she cries out your name and begs you to save her. As
she does this, Angharad spins around to face you, her eyes red and menacing. She
advances on you, her arms still raised like wings and, as she draws closer, her heads arcs
back and she opens her mouth wide to reveal two sets of white teeth, the upper canines of
which are elongated and pointed.
Are you dowsed with the aroma of garlic? Turn to 103
Or are you holding a crucifix in your out-stretched left hand? Turn to 63

                                              56
You hold the sword in an offensive manner, the blade pointed forward to allow you to get
an initial attack in at arm's-length. Turn to 138

                                              57
You quietly leave you room, closing the door behind you carefully, and look back down
the short landing to the two rooms that you saw the twins being lead to. Angharad's room
is on the same side of the landing as yours, whilst Ingrid's is on the opposite side a little
further along.
Will you knock on Angharad's door? Turn to 154
Or on Ingrid's door? Turn to 90
Or would you rather go downstairs? Turn to 12




                                                                                          23

                                             58
You raise the magic sword as Heydrich's spirit comes to a halt in front of you. He raises
his ghostly arms and swoops to attack. As he has no tangible presence as such, his spirit
can only be harmed by enchanted weapons. This will be a fight to the death:

                     HEYDRICH'S ESSENCE SKILL 13 STAMINA 15

Each time he wins an Attack Round, you must take 3 Stamina points of damage as his
evil form burns into your soul. If you are covered in the aroma of garlic you can increase
your Skill by 2 for this combat as Heydrich has to concentrate hard to avoid being
naturally repelled.

If you somehow win this combat, turn to 167

                                             59
In spite of the agony of the pressure on your skull, you manage to focus your strength
long enough to wrestle her hands from your head. This creature is obviously intent on
despatching you, so you have no real choice but to defend yourself. Turn to 121

                                             60
What do decide to hold as you enter the room (you can choose only one item):
A marchpane pheasant? Turn to 15
A silver stake? Turn to 113
Some garlic flowers? Turn to 162
A magic sword? Turn to 56
A gold filigree crucifix? Turn to 39
Polidori's Genealogy? Turn to 80
Or if you prefer to not hold any of these, or do not have any of them, turn to 47

                                             61
As you approach Angharad's room you notice that the door is open slightly and a breeze
is bristling cold damp air in through the crack. You push the door open and are surprised
to see Angharad standing at the window looking outwards. You close the door behind
you quietly.
Will you announce yourself to Angharad? Turn to 37
Would you prefer to approach her silently? Turn to 50
Or will you wait by the door and see if anything happens - she might just be closing the
window and be temporarily pre-occupied by something? Turn to 21

                                             62
Relieved that you have somehow survived another bizarre incident, you make your way
up the corridor quickly, trudging with surprising ease through the thick dust layer. You
glance behind you to reassure yourself that nothing is following you and you double-take
to be sure you are not imagining what you now see. Your footsteps are disappearing as
the disturbed dust moves back into position leaving no sign that you have passed. You
take a moment to gather your thoughts and then run as fast as you can to the far end of
the corridor, which ends at an ancient-looking gnarled wooden door. Looking behind you


                                                                                        24

a second time, you see fresh footprints sinking into the dust and heading in your
direction. Rooted to the spot with fear, all you can do is watch, but you are relieved when
they stop in front of you briefly, before an intensely chilling cold sensation grips your
body and it feels as if something literally passes through you, then on through the wooden
door. Lose 2 Stamina points for the cold chill this leaves in your body.
Will you now open the door? Turn to 150
Do you prefer to knock at the door? Turn to 77
Or will you go back the way you came, through the dark room and out into the original
north corridor you were heading up? Turn to 29

                                              63
Angharad catches a glimpse of the crucifix that you are waving in her direction. She
recoils and cowers in the near corner of the room, shielding her eyes from the holy
symbol which glints and glimmers as the candlelight catches it. Turn to 72

                                              64
`Hmm, very nice. Very nice indeed. I swear I've seen one like this around the place
before, but it's handy to have one myself. Very useful around here, these are,' he says,
taking the crucifix from you. `You can go now. I forgive you your indiscretion.' You
infer from his words that you may live to regret surrendering this object. Lose 1 Luck
point. The man gestures you out and you now carry on along the corridor. Turn to 131

                                              65
From the other side of the door you can hear the sounds of a struggle and two female
voices, which you recognise as those of Angharad and Ingrid, who are shouting at each
other.
Will you enter the room immediately (turn to 47) or select an item from your pack before
you open the door (turn to 60)?

                                              66
As you sleep, you dream:

You are walking up a barren hillside and you are getting ever nearer to a huge stone
megalith. As you grow closer it starts to change shape, writhing and melting into a
human form ­ the form of a tall stately-looking man dressed in the style of at least a
hundred years ago, if not more. He gestures for you to draw closer and his mouth is
moving as if he wishes to speak. You move close enough to hear what he is saying and the
gentleness of his voice puts you at ease:
`You have proved yourself to be a man of honour, lawyer. By freeing that wretched
creature from its torment, you have shown us that we have not misplaced our hopes.
Allow me to introduce myself: I am Siegfried Heydrich, one-time lord of this building and
the surrounding region. My brother Reiner befouled this once great place and cursed this
region with a terrible pestilence. Some say he was Nosferatu, a vampire, and his foul
legacy was believed to be destroyed forever. The creature you have just released from its
curse was his bastard half-breed child, a dhampir - half-human, half-vampire,
condemned to reside in this place, suffering all the eternal torment of a vampire, but with



                                                                                         25

none of the power. We are in no doubt that there is still time to save her grandchild from
the terrible fate that could await her, but you must work fast. Take this object and learn
from it.'

You suddenly jerk awake and find a leather-bound book by your hand. You examine the
cover and read its gilded lettering:

                                    Polidori's Genealogy

You open the book and read page upon page describing the Heydrich bloodline. You
learn that the twins are the grandchildren of Maria Heydrich, the dhampir that you have
recently destroyed, herself the daughter of Reiner Heydrich and a local peasant girl by the
name of Nastassia that he once abducted.
You read all of the book, which has 106 pages. Gain 2 Stamina points for the rest, and
also 1 Luck point and 2 Faith points for your discovery.
A new doorway has now appeared at the farthest side of the room to where you entered
from and you decide that this must be a portent of the way forward. Turn to 156

                                              67
You close the door behind you and step into the welcome torchlight of the corridor. In
spite of the seemingly freshly-lit appearance of the torches that run along the walls, this
corridor appears otherwise to have been neglected for a long time. Dust sits inches-deep
on the floor and myriad cobwebs hang every which way. This is very unlike the
immaculate look of the parts of the house that you have already explored and a shiver
runs down your spine as a large spider descends on a single thread of silk and comes to
rest, dangling just in front of your face. The spider remains motionless and simply
revolves in mid-air by its thread.
Will you brush the spider aside and press on? Turn to 132
Or will you wait to see what happens next, if anything? Turn to 74

                                              68
You make your excuses and head back to your room, closing Angharad's door behind
you. Turn to 145

                                              69
You wander aimlessly around the ruins alone for what seems like ages, getting quite
bored as you measure up what is nothing more than rubble and collapsed stonework. A
general examination of the plants that have taken root in the gaps in the mortar of the
walls produces some tiny garlic flowers, which you can take if you want to.
It is not long before the twins announce that this is a thoroughly underwhelming
experience and insist on returning to the inn to get some food and to sleep off last night.
You all return to the inn where you have dinner then decide to turn in for an early night.
Turn to 108




                                                                                           26

                                              70
You turn the handle but the door is locked.
Will you knock at the door? Turn to 155
Try to barge the door open? Turn to 146
Or follow the corridor around to the left instead? Turn to 131

                                              71
You tell Ingrid you intend to take the west corridor and she agrees to head east. You wish
one-another good luck and set off in opposite directions. The corridor is well-maintained
with beautifully carved dark wood wall panelling and a highly-polished marble floor with
a lush dark red carpet running up its central section, presumably to protect the expensive-
looking flooring. The walls are dotted with burning torches mounted in alabaster
cornices.
After a few hundred yards of waking, the corridor swings to the right in a northerly
direction, but there is also a door immediately in front of you in the corner of the
corridor. The red carpeting extends to the door as well as turning north.
Do you wish to try the door? Turn to 133
Or is the urgency of the need to find Angharad more important than exploring rooms?
Turn to 141

                                              72
With Angharad temporarily incapacitated, you run to the far side of the room where you
fumble with Ingrid's bonds and untie her. She throws her arms around you and relates the
story of how she found Angharad asleep in this room, lying on the floor surrounded by a
pentagram of black candles. An unseen force then slammed to door of the room shut and
Ingrid was unable to open it. She started to panic at which point Angharad rose from her
slumber and advanced on her, grabbing her and dragging her with an incredible and
unnatural strength across the room, before tying her as you have just found her. Angharad
had then arranged the candles around the wall and began to perform a bizarre ritual
dance, whirling around the room like a dervish. She then raised her arms in the bat-like
position you came across her in and started to stare menacingly at Ingrid. Ingrid had tried
to reason with her sister, but she seemed totally absorbed in her macabre act, although
there were signs of recognition amidst the reverie.
You both look across the room at Angharad, who is now speaking to you in a child's
voice:
`Sing to me, grandmother. Then it will all be better. The monsters will be afraid then,
mother. Sing to me, please, and make the monsters go away.'
You think fast. If you have read Polidori's Genealogy you will know the identity of the
twins' grandmother. Turn now to the paragraph which is the same as the number of pages
in the Genealogy. If you do not know this information, turn to 161

                                              73
The force of this blow from the creature's sharp claws causes you to blanche as you
realise what this really means. You feel faint and stumble onto the floor, allowing the
beast to sink its teeth into your leg. You scream out in pain and the creature looks around
in alarm as you hear footsteps approaching from the landing. Someone must have been



                                                                                         27

alerted by the noise and the Werewolf takes its chance to leap onto the window ledge,
then from the broken window into the dark night outside. The innkeeper bursts into your
room with the twins trailing behind him. Angharad screams as she looks at you and you
cock your head to one side quizzically as you try to say her name but only a weak growl
eminates from your mouth. `I knew there was something not quite right about ye,' says
the innkeeper and you only get a brief glimpse of your now hair-covered face reflected in
the flashing silver blade that the man swings in a circular manner, cleaving your head
clean off your shoulders. The twins scream as Mortvania's newest blight dies.

                                              74
The spider continues to revolve on its silky rope and you start to feel a little mesmerised
by it.

Roll one die and compare the result to your current Faith score. If the result is higher,
turn to 5. If the result is lower, turn to 93

                                              75
`Hmm, very nice. Very nice indeed. A curious creation if ever there was one. Doubtless
delicious too,' he says, taking the sweetmeat from you. `You can go now. I forgive you
your indiscretion.' The man gestures you out and you now carry on along the corridor.
Turn to 131

                                              76
You decide that it would be for the best if the twins understood exactly how their family
was and is viewed in this land and you divulge the limited details that the case documents
have told you. They laugh off any suggestion that there may ever have been any "evil" in
their family and you are quick to agree with them that it must just be foolish superstition.
As you say this you cannot help noticing that the landlord and the few others in the inn
cross themselves and make the mark of the evil eye but, again, you reassure yourself that
this is a simple country populated by simple people.
Eventually you suggest that it might be prudent to retire to bed as you all have an early
start tomorrow. The three of you are shown up a flight of stone steps and to your rooms
by the landlord.
Do you wish to go directly to bed? Turn to 145
Or will you explore the inn a little? Turn to 57

                                              77
You rap on the door with your fist but, bizarrely, you can hear no noise coming from
your knocking. You knock harder, but still no sound comes. Regardless of how hard you
knock, you fail to produce any kind of sound at all. Careful not to do any damage to your
hand by vainly hammering on the door any further you now have two options:
To open the door, turn to 150
If you decide you have had enough of this weird corridor and wish to head back through
the dust to the dark room and out into the original north corridor you were heading up,
turn to 29




                                                                                          28

                                              78
After an hour or so of crushing herbs, boiling liquids in flasks over burners, and mixing it
all together to create the most pungent smell you have ever had the misfortune to
experience, the old man presents you with a mug of cloudy liquid.
Do you drink it? Turn to 38
Or do you decline? Turn to 149

                                              79
No sooner have you pressed your lips against her hand and she grabs your head firmly
with both hands and begins to crush your skull.

Test Your Skill
If you succeed, turn to 59
If you fail, turn to 97

                                              80
You hold the book in front of your chest as if it will afford you protection of some kind.
Although you feel a little foolish, you prepare yourself for whatever awaits you on the
other side of the door. Turn to 148

                                              81
You draw your sword and advance on the old man who looks a little startled at your
reaction. He produces a large mace from under his jacket and swings it with surprising
skill. Indeed, he can handle himself, as Dr Karlov is an ex-assassin who later turned to
basic medicine to seek a quieter life in his old age. This will not be as simple as you had
hoped:

                            DR. KARLOV SKILL 11 STAMINA 7

If you defeat the old man, turn to 165

                                              82
You turn the conversation to the subject of your disturbing dream about Castle Heydrich.
The twins both instantly reveal that they too had the same dream. In fact, even more
curiously, you all had the same dream at roughly the same hour. As odd a coincidence as
this is, the discovery that you are not alone in having been affected in this way comes as a
reassurance to you. Gain 1 Faith point for the comfort this brings. Eventually the topic
changes to logistics and legal matters and you ultimately prepare to set off to the castle's
site together. Turn to 122

                                              83
You draw your sword and prepare to fight the creature, which flails its fists about in fury
at your reaction:
                              DHAMPIR SKILL 12 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 136



                                                                                          29

                                              84
After several minutes of fruitless searching, you find no hidden exits of any kind. You
can now either investigate the bed, if you haven't already (turn to 143) or leave through
the door by which you entered this room (turn to 29)

                                              85
The third wound from the Ghoul's raking diseased fingernails causes you to drop your
sword, your body stiffening as the putrid creature's paralysing touch courses through
your veins. You will make a fine meal for Reiner Heydrich's final trap, which has been
efficacious in protecting his inner sanctum.

                                              86
If you wish to try the door on the opposite (right hand) side of the corridor turn to 94.
Otherwise, to carry on up the corridor turn to 48

                                              87
Test Your Luck
If you succeed, turn to 164
If you fail, turn to 105

                                              88
Seeing the twins in this state fills your mind with thoughts of hopeless failure. Somehow
Angharad has become that which you were so determined did not exist, and poor forlorn
Ingrid looks set to follow. Tears well up in your eyes, as Angharad grasps your head and
fractures your hyoid bone with a swift twisting of your neck. You drop to the floor in a
lifeless heap having come so close yet failed so miserably. Your adventure ends here, the
vampire's legacy having come to fruition.

                                              89
Shortly after the door, the corridor takes a sharp left turn and heads north. You follow the
corridor for several hundred yards until you reach a sharp turning to the left. A door is on
the right hand wall in the corner of the corridor and the carpet extends out to it. Will you
try the door (turn to 70) or follow the corridor around to the left (turn to 131)?

                                              90
You knock quietly on the door to Ingrid's room, but there is no response.
Will you try the door? Turn to 134
Will you try Angharad's room instead? Turn to 154
Would you like to go downstairs? Turn to 12
Or do you prefer to retire to bed? Turn to 145

                                              91
A brief search of the shelves produces little of use other than food preparing utensils, but
you do find two bottles containing liquids (one red, one light brown) and a large silver
box with `For the Special Guests ONLY' written on the side in a flourishing hand.




                                                                                           30

Do you wish to drink from one of the bottles? If so, does the red liquid interest you (turn
to 31 to drink this) or the light brown liquid (turn to 127 to drink this.) Alternatively, do
you want to take a look in the large box (turn to 25) or have you seen enough here and
want to carry on up the north corridor (turn to 141)?

                                              92
As you enter your room you are greeted by the innkeeper, who has a crossbow trained on
you:
`So it was you was the werewolf around here, then. Damned outsiders. No sooner is the
foul name of Heydrich heard in Mortvania again and good people start dying, just like in
the old days.'
Before you can try to explain what really happened, you see a silver quarrel hurtling
towards you. With deadly accuracy, it thuds into your heart, passing directly through it
and leaving a gaping exit hole as it embeds itself in the wall behind you. The locals may
be simple, but they certainly know how to deal with werewolves and such like. You are
dead even before your body hits the floor.

                                              93
You grow increasingly more hypnotised by the spider's perpetual motion but, suddenly,
your trance is broken as the dust on the floor in front of you starts to divide and the top of
a decayed rotting head begins to rise out of the ground. You have just enough time to
unsheathe your sword before the Zombie has risen to full height and lumbers towards
you. You must fight this witless creature that is mindlessly doing the bidding of its
malevolent master:

                                ZOMBIE SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, a search of the tattered rags the Zombie wears produces a rat's skull with a
few strands of human hair caught in the teeth ­ you recognise the hair as being the same
colour as Angahard's. You quickly cast from your mind any thoughts that this pathetic
revenant might have been the last thing she ever saw and make quick progress down the
corridor. Turn to 62

                                              94
You open the door onto a room which is in complete darkness and is totally silent. The
light cast from the torches in the corridor reveals little more than vague shadows in the
otherwise impenetrable black void of this room.
Do you wish to proceed into the darkness (turn to 158) or close the door and continue up
the corridor (turn to 48)?

                                              95
Moving far quicker than you are able to, the creature side-steps your attack and, in a
stealthily fluid motion, grabs your arm, bending it around so that the stake now points at
your chest. She then wheels around in a roundhouse kick, whipping your legs out from
under you. You fall quickly, living just long enough to realise that the stake has passed




                                                                                            31

directly through your chest cavity, puncturing your heart and emerging from your back.
Your adventure ends here.

                                              96
The werewolf whimpers pathetically as you manage to punch it so hard in the windpipe
that it chokes on the blood that was already building up in its mouth from your previous
blows. It collapses in front of you as if scythed down and you watch in horror as the fur
on its body shrinks rapidly back into its skin, leaving the naked body of one of the men
you remember seeing downstairs in the bar area earlier. Around his neck is a talisman
with the letter H stamped on it which you can take if you wish.
Exhausted by the fight, you push the man's body under the bed (you do not want anyone
finding a local's body under your broken window come daybreak), take the covers and
curl up in a corner of the room to finally find sleep. Turn to 18

                                              97
You try to wrest her hands from your head but, try as you might, you find it impossible to
focus your strength with such intense pain in your head. The last thing you see is a wry
smile cross the creature's lips as the sound of rending and crushing skull bone explodes
in your ears. Your one consolation is that this is probably a preferable death to one at the
hands of a vampire. Your adventure ends here.

                                              98
You tell Angharad that you have a problem with involuntary somnambulism, apologise
for the intrusion, and leave the room, closing the door behind you.
You return quickly to your own room feeling slightly embarrassed at the intrusion. Lose
1 Luck point. Turn to 145

                                              99
Your final blow cleaves the Ghoul's head clean from its body and it falls to the floor
dead. You wipe its foul blood on the straw that lines the floor of this chamber.
Do you wish to explore the Ghoul's lair (turn to 45) or do you prefer to make for a door
you can see in the far wall (turn to 65)?

                                              100
The third wound from the werewolf tears a wide gash in your chest and your warm blood
streams down your torso.

Roll two dice and compare the result with your current Faith score:
If the result is lower than your Faith, turn to 32. If the result is higher than your Faith,
turn to 73

                                              101
In spite of her pleas, you push the point deeper into the creature's heart until its grip starts
to loosen and it falls to its knees, slumping onto its right side. Before its eyes close for the
last time, its mouth raises a serene smile as if death has somehow come as a relief to it.
No sooner has the creature stopped moving and the room is filled with a tangible aura of



                                                                                              32

happiness as you once again feel the same cold sensation that you experienced before
entering this room, but this time the cold is strangely comforting and you suddenly feel a
great inclination to sleep. The lavish silk sheets of the bed seem to beckon you towards
them and you cannot resist approaching the huge bed and losing yourself in its
luxuriance.
You drift into a welcome and deep sleep. Turn to 66

                                                102
The corridor continues for some distance and you are aware that the air grows
increasingly stale, almost foetid. You have to cover your mouth with your hand to avoid
vomiting, the stench is so bad.
Eventually, the corridor ends at a single wooden door with scratch marks and small spots
of fresh blood spattered about it.
You shiver with fright as you realise that this may well be the blood of one or both of the
twins and resolve to carry on, aware that you must surely be close to finding them.
You grasp the handle and turn it. Turn to 126

                                                103
Just as Angharad is poised to bite at your neck, she recoils at the scent of the garlic, and
cowers in the near corner of the room, rubbing her eyes and nose as they bleed and burn
with pain. Turn to 72

                                                104
`Your room is the next one along on this side of the landing,' she tells you, clearly having
fallen for your awkward explanation. You thank her, apologising for your "error" and it
occurs to you that Angharad might be unusually naive for her age. You close her door
and head back to your room. Turn to 145

                                                105
Evidently, the inn's goblin chambermaid has done a particularly thorough job of cleaning
your room today and has found the body under the bed. As you open the door to your
room you are greeted with the sight of two burly militiamen who disarm and cuff you
before you have time to think or react:
`So there was no werewolf around here anymore after all, then. Damned outsiders. No
sooner is the foul name of Heydrich heard in Mortvania again and good people start
dying, just like in the old days.'
You are lead from the room in chains and bundled into a small and uncomfortable jailor's
coach. If you are lucky, you will live an extra day if the local judge can be bothered with
a trial. It is likely, however, that your guilt is all too obvious and you will probably go
directly to your execution tomorrow. Your adventure ends here.

                                                106
You remind Angharad who her grandmother was and tell her that Maria Heydrich is now
at peace. Angharad looks in recognition and begs you to sing to her and "make the
monsters leave her alone". Have you ever heard a lullaby that the twins' grandmother
sang to them every night as children? If so, you will know how many verses it has.



                                                                                           33

Divide the current paragraph number by the number of verses in the lullaby and turn to
the new reference now. If you have not heard the song, or the new paragraph makes no
sense, then turn to 161

                                              107
You step confidently into the room, hopeful of rescuing the twins.
The sight that greets you is not of the girls, but of a hideously deformed, semi-decayed
human figure moving deftly towards you. Its clothes are in tatters and in various places
the flesh is missing revealing yellowed bone. The Ghoul grins evilly at you and advances,
clawing at the air with its filthy talons. You must fight:

                                 GHOUL SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

If the Ghoul wins three Attack Rounds, turn to 85
If you defeat the foul creature without sustaining three wounds in total, turn to 99

                                              108
Did you kill a Werewolf last night and hide the body under your bed? If so, turn to 87.
Otherwise, turn to 23

                                              109
You produce the crucifix and thrust it in her direction. She merely shrugs her shoulders
and calmly says, `Did you not hear what I just said, lawyer?'
Will you try to repel her with some garlic flowers (if you haven't already done so)? Turn
to 41
Alternatively, will you approach her (turn to 152), or attack her (turn to 121)?

                                              110
As you kick away the final rat corpse from the bed, Ingrid's face turns from abject terror
to happy relief:
`Thank you,' she says, `there is nothing in all of Titan that I fear more than rats.'
You console her and, once she is over her fear, you think to check the ceiling that had
fallen in as the rats fell onto the bed. To your surprise, the hole that was there is gone and
the ceiling is completely intact. Ingrid does not seem to have noticed, sheer relief being
enough to console her right now, so you try to clear your mind and take your leave before
Ingrid gathers her thoughts and enquires as to your unsolicited presence in her room.
You settle her, tell her you will see her at breakfast in the morning, and return to your
room to try to finally get some uninterrupted sleep. Turn to 18

                                              111
As your final blow cuts into the creature you are surprised to see it simply vanish into
thin air, its disappearance also taking all the light from the room. You are once again in
total darkness.
Will you leave the room, not wishing to see what other horrors it may have in store for
you? Turn to 48




                                                                                            34

Or will you fumble around in the darkness hoping that this room may still yield a pleasant
surprise? Turn to 8

                                             112
You are transfixed by the gesturing figure and cannot resist stepping forwards. The gates
open and you glide effortlessly along the main pathway towards the front door. The door
opens and the figure stands before you. Its eyes flare red with glee and you feel a light
scratch as your neck is punctured by two sharp fangs.
Even the dreamworld is deadly when vampires are about and you will never awake from
this reverie that will remain your home forever, damned to perpetually roam somewhere
between reality and illusion. Your adventure ends here.

                                             113
You hold the stake in your left hand with point positioned forwards, poised to strike at
anything that may threaten you on the other side of the door. Turn to 148

                                             114
As you are walking back towards the agreed meeting point, your foot catches on
something protruding from the ground.
If you want to stop and investigate this, turn to 30
If you would rather ignore the object, turn to 166

                                             115
You have walked barely a few metres together when an impenetrably thick fog suddenly
descends around you, reducing visibility to less than five feet in front of you. The air is
damp and chilly and your mind begins to play tricks on you. The glow of the silver eyes
that you thought you saw on arrival at the inn last night is visible not far from you and
you reach out to each side to take the hands of the twins, who willingly snatch at your
hands in response. Their palms are clammy and Angharad tells you she does not like this
at all. You speak Ingrid's name to make sure it is indeed her hand that you are also
holding and you are relieved when her voice responds in the affirmative, adding that she
does not think it wise to go any further. She proposes that you all return to the inn and
check through all the documents you have brought. `If all else fails,' she suggests, `we
can always visit the castle site tomorrow.'
The potential delaying of your schedule bothers you, but there is no doubt that this fog is
incredibly dense and strangely disconcerting.
Will you suggest that the three of you press on through the fog? Turn to 24
Will you send the twins back to the safety of the inn and carry on alone? Turn to 51
Or do you suggest that that sounds like a sensible idea and take the twins back to the inn?
Turn to 3

                                             116
You make your way down the wide wooden staircase, which ends at a single corridor
leading southwards. This corridor has a polished wooden floor, but the walls are still
lined with torches to light your way. Turn to 102




                                                                                           35

                                             117
Rising from the bed is a young woman with a dirty face and ragged, matted black hair.
She has unusually large eyes and a pronounced, almost disfiguringly large nose. As she
steps from the bed, you notice that she wears a green silk nightgown but is barefoot, her
toenails long and yellowed. She makes her way towards you and speaks in an
unexpectedly soothing, even familiar, voice:
`Do not be afraid, lawyer. I mean you no harm. I despise the succubi as much as you,
maybe even more so.'
How will you react?
To approach her, turn to 152
To attack her, turn to 121
To hold up a gold filigree crucifix, turn to 109
Or to hold out some garlic flowers, turn to 41

                                             118
`There's just no getting any peace, no matter how hard I try,' grumbles the old man as he
slams the door in your face. You hear the key turn in the lock from inside and have no
choice but to carry on along the corridor. Turn to 131

                                             119
You reach forwards and as soon as your hand touches the mass of flies you feel an
intense burning sensation shoot up your arm as if an unseen venomous creature has
somehow bitten into your hand. Lose 2 Stamina points for this strange but all too real
pain. As you grip your hand a vague smile appears on Angharad's lips as the insects rise
from her face as one and hover over her head briefly before consolidating themselves into
a single mass which takes the rough form of a large black bat. Turn to 44

                                             120
You swing the enchanted weapon around your head and slice Angharad's head off her
shoulders as the blade arcs through the air. Her head bounces twice on the carpeted floor,
then comes to rest as it collides with a candle that quickly ignites her hair. Soon the head
is blazing and you think you can discern a fading scream as it burns. The body collapses
in front of you. You kick the headless corpse to be sure it will not reanimate, then take
your opportunity to run to the far side of the room where you untie Ingrid's bonds. The
room is beginning to blaze as you drag Ingrid from it and run back through the straw-
strewn Ghoul chamber, up the staircase and around the corridor to the main entrance.
From the safety of the outside courtyard you both watch in awe as the fire in the building
quickly takes hold. An inferno is soon raging and you both run through the night back to
the sanctuary of the inn.
Castle Heydrich and whatever evil lurks within it has been destroyed, but at what price?
You have failed to save Angharad, but Ingrid and yourself are alive and safe. You have
survived and Ingrid will inherit the worthless ruins as planned, but this is a hollow victory
that cost the life of Angharad.

                                             121
Do you have a silver stake? If so, turn to 20. If not, turn to 83



                                                                                           36

                                               122
You set off on foot on what is a day of total contrast to yesterday morning ­ the sun is
shining brightly and the sky is a shimmering blue with no clouds at all. It is not long
before you all finally reach the ruins of the castle. The outer perimeter wall remains
largely intact, but little remains of the building itself other than charred rubble and a few
crumbling walls covered with moss and creepers. The site itself is large and suggests that
the castle that once stood here was indeed as impressive as the sketch in your documents
shows, if not even more so. It will take an hour or so of roaming around the site to
complete a general survey of the scale and footprint of the original structure. You discuss
how best to assess the site overall.
Do you wish to explore alone? Turn to 10
Or would you like to remain with the twins, if only for company? Turn to 69

                                               123
Due to today's ordeal, your room feels more welcoming than it did the first night, but
your lack of progress in visiting the ruins plays on your mind. Yes, you have managed to
deal with the paperwork that was required, but you are conscious that the twins wish to
see their inheritance and try to connect with their past in a material sense. Your open
rejection of local folklore and paranoia has done little to deter the twins from witnessing
first-hand what remains of Castle Heydrich and their slightly over-zealous curiosity is at
odds with your logical approach to life. You lie restlessly on your bed for an hour, unable
to get to sleep.
Will you remain in your room until sleep inevitably takes you? Turn to 46
Will you go to Ingrid's room for company? Turn to 128
Or do you prefer Angharad's company? Turn to 61

                                               124
You turn the handle and the door opens into a vast bedchamber. A huge wooden four-
poster stands at the far wall, whilst much of the floor area between you and the foot of the
bed is taken up by a tigerskin rug. The walls are lined with numerous paintings.
Would you like to examine the bed (turn to 157), take a look at the paintings (turn to 43),
or close the door and return to the corridor? (Turn to 86)

                                               125
After a lengthy search, the room yields nothing of any use and you eventually leave this
horrible chamber before anything else unpleasant befalls you. Turn to 48

                                               126
Roll two dice and compare the result to your current Faith score. If the result is lower,
turn to 107. If the result is higher, turn to 34

                                               127
You sip at the light brown liquid, which is warming in your mouth. As you swallow some
you feel invigorated. Gain 2 Stamina and 1 Faith point for the re-assuring taste of an
excellent brandy. You can take the rest of the bottle with you if you want to. There is



                                                                                            37

enough left for two more sips, each of which will restore 2 Stamina points ­ you can
drink these whenever you wish.
If you have not done so already, you may now either open the box (turn to 25) or drink
some of the red liquid (turn to 31). If you have already tried the liquids and opened the
box, or do not want to do these, you can leave the room and continue north (turn to 141)

                                             128
Approaching Ingrid's room, you can hear the sound of her snoring loudly from within.
You open the door and step carefully inside. Even if she will not awaken you would feel
more comfortable and safe curling up in the corner of her room and trying to sleep. After
all, if anything untoward happens, at least you can attempt to protect each other.
You have only just dozed off, when you hear an almighty crash as a section of the ceiling
falls inward and a seething and writhing mass of dark fur pours in through the hole.
Ingrid awakes with a scream and, although surprised at seeing you in her room, she
gestures towards the mass that is forming on her bed. She is almost paralyzed with fear
and all that comes from her terrified lips are the words `Nothing worse, nothing worse.'
You move closer. In the flickering candle-light it is apparent that the mass is actually a
large group of Plague Rats that must number at least twenty. Before you can defend
Ingrid or yourself the rats bizarrely form themselves into a rough H shape before
launching themselves in your direction. You fight them as one enemy. Ingrid can do
nothing as she is cowering in terror:

                        PLAGUE RAT HORDE SKILL 7 STAMINA 9

If you win, turn to 110

                                             129
You enter a large square room with the same marbled floor as the corridor. The room is
totally bare other than a single portrait which hangs on each of the three internal walls.
Would you like to examine a painting? If so, do you choose a portrait of a woman (turn to
13), a dark portrait of a suave-looking man (turn to 36), or a very faded and damaged
painting (turn to 144)? Or, if the pictures do not have any appeal to you, you return to the
east corridor (turn to 89)

                                             130
The voices grow louder and more intense and you begin to feel like your head will
explode with the tinny pitch. But as suddenly as the laughter began, it stops and the room
is once again filled with an eerie silence and pitch darkness. The silence itself is ominous
after the evil laughter you have just heard.
Do you remain in the room? Turn to 14
Or will you open the door and go back into the corridor? Turn to 48

                                             131
You follow the corridor around the corner and very soon it ends at a large wide staircase
that leads downwards. Looking beyond the staircase, you can see that another corridor
comes from the far side and meets yours at the top of the stairs. You can see light muddy



                                                                                          38

footprints on the carpet running from the far corridor and down the stairs. You begin to
descend, hoping that you are following Ingrid's footsteps. Turn to 116

                                              132
You raise your hand and, as you make contact with the spider's body, it spins around and
sinks its fangs into your hand. Lose 2 Stamina points. Luckily, its bite is not poisonous,
and you are able to dislodge the spider, which falls to the ground and scampers off up the
corridor and out of sight. Turn to 62

                                              133
The door opens into a small dimly-lit storeroom with shelves running along its walls.
Would you like to check the shelves to see if there is anything here that could be useful?
Turn to 91
Or will you close the door and press on up the north corridor? Turn to 141

                                              134
The door opens inwards into a simple room lit in one corner by a single candle which
casts just enough light for you to be able to make out Ingrid's form sleeping soundly in
the bed at the centre of the room. Not wishing to panic her with your sudden presence,
you carefully leave the room, closing the door behind you.
Will you now try Angharad's room? Turn to 154
Or go back to your room to bed yourself? Turn to 145

                                              135
In spite of their insistence and the effects of the ale you have consumed you deflect their
questions and keep the discussion as light and non-specific as you can.
Eventually you suggest that it might be prudent to retire to bed as you all have an early
start tomorrow. The three of you are shown up a flight of stone steps and to your rooms
by the landlord.
Do you wish to go directly to bed? Turn to 145
Or will you explore the inn a little? Turn to 57

                                              136
Your final blow bites deep into the creature's side and it falls to the floor in front of you.
You can now examine the bed (turn to 143) or try to find an exit other than the way you
came in (turn to 84)




                                                                                            39

                                               137
Gripping your heart, which is now beating at an incredible rate, you somehow manage to
stay standing. Gain 1 Luck point for simply still being alive. Although your eyes have
now accustomed themselves to the newly-lit room, you do not have any time to take in
your surroundings before the foul creature in front of you forms itself into the physical
manifestation of your absolute worst fear and springs towards you.
You are fighting for your life:

                          EMBODIMENT OF
                           PRIMAL FEAR         SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

If you survive this combat, turn to 111

                                               138
The sight that greets you as you open the door and enter the room beyond fills you with
both joy and despair. Standing in the centre of the room is Angharad, resplendent in a
sheer white dress akin to a wedding gown. She faces away from you with her arms raised
in the air, the sleeves of her dress draping down in such a manner that they could almost
resemble a bat's wings. The floor is covered with a mauve deep-pile carpet and black
candles run around the perimeter of the room, burning with such bright flames that they
create a square border of magnesium-white light that is blinding to look directly at. You
focus your eyes directly on the far wall where you see Ingrid suspended from the ceiling
beam by a thick rope which binds her wrists. She is squirming to try to free herself which
is causing friction burns on her lower arms. Tears stream from her eyes and her face is
white with fear. As she sees you, she cries out your name and begs you to save her. As
she does this, Angharad spins around to face you, her eyes red and menacing. She
advances on you, her arms still raised like wings and, as she draws closer, her heads arcs
back and she opens her mouth wide to reveal two sets of white teeth, the upper canines of
which are elongated and pointed.
Will you immediately attack Angharad with the magic sword? Turn to 120
Or will you take a moment to think of something else to do first? Turn to 160

                                               139
You thrust the stake into the creature's heart and its eyes open wide with terror as it feels
the sharp point press against its heart. It tries to wrestle the stake from your hand whilst
pleading with you to spare its life.

Roll two dice and compare the result with your current Faith score:
If you roll under your Faith, turn to 11
If the roll is higher than your Faith, turn to 101

                                               140
You suddenly awaken with a jolt, your body sodden with the cold sweat of fear. Lose 1
Stamina point as you spend the rest of the night trying to get as much broken sleep as you
can in spite of this all-too-lucid dream.




                                                                                            40

You wake up the following morning, still shaken by your dream of the illusory castle, but
your sense of incredulity reminds you that is was just a dream. You go downstairs to
breakfast where the twins are waiting for you. Turn to 4

                                             141
Heading north up the corridor you reach two doors facing one-another, one in the left
wall and one in the right wall. The carpet once again extends out to these two doors.
Do you wish to try either of the doors? To try the left door turn to 124, or to try the right
door turn to 94.
To carry on up the corridor, turn to 48

                                             142
Angharad has a pleasant if slightly child-like and off-key singing voice, but the song she
sings is positive and, given the circumstances of where you are forced to currently reside,
you do indeed feel relaxed. Gain 1 Faith point.
You listen to both verses of Angharad's song before thanking her and making your way
back to your room. As you leave, Angharad tells you that she can sense that you are a
well-meaning person. Turn to 145

                                             143
You draw back the curtains which surround the bed and see shimmering silk sheets that
are very welcoming after your recent ordeals. Will you climb into the bed to sleep (turn
to 22) or would you rather look for an exit other than the way you came in (turn to 84)?

                                             144
The painting is badly defaced, with knife slashes across the face and much of the paint is
either burned or rubbed away. There is little that is distinguishable other than the label,
which reads Siegfried Heydrich. The name jogs your memory and you are reminded of
having seen this name mentioned in the deeds to the site as a one-time owner of Castle
Heydrich. This is interesting, but otherwise inconsequential to you, so you can now either
look at the picture of the woman (turn to 13), the picture of the suave man (turn to 36), or
you can decide that this room has nothing to offer you and press on in search of
Angharad (turn to 89)

                                             145
Your room is basic but accommodating, and the soft warm bed is welcome after the days
and hours of travel you have endured to reach Mortvania. You are asleep within minutes
of your head hitting the eider-down pillow.
The next morning you awaken at sunrise and go down to breakfast where the twins are
already waiting for you. You eat a cooked breakfast of bacon and thickly cut bread and
then the three of you set off the short distance to the ruined castle site on foot.
Turn to 115

                                             146
You brace yourself and prepare to charge the door with your shoulder. As you are about
to make contact with the wood, the door opens and you stumble through, across a small



                                                                                            41

room, and finish up in a crumpled heap at the far side, having crashed into several
shelves, the contents of which are falling all around you. Lose 2 Stamina points.
You look up to see a small bespectacled old man in a silk smoking jacket who offers you
his hand with an amused expression on his face:

`My my, just where are your manners?' he chides. `It will take months to replace the
damage you have done. Give me an item of value and I'll let you go unpunished.'

Will you give the old man something? Turn to 52
Or will you attack him? Turn to 81

                                             147
Not wishing to appear foolish, you think it would be better not to relate your disturbing
dream to the twins and the conversation is quickly turned to logistics and legal matters
and you ultimately prepare to set off to the castle's site together. Turn to 122

                                             148
The sight that greets you as you open the door and enter the room beyond fills you with
both joy and despair. Standing in the centre of the room is Angharad, resplendent in a
sheer white dress akin to a wedding gown. She faces away from you with her arms raised
in the air, the sleeves of her dress draping down in such a manner that they could almost
resemble a bat's wings. The floor is covered with a mauve deep-pile carpet and black
candles run around the perimeter of the room, burning with such bright flames that they
create a square border of magnesium-white light that is blinding to look directly at. You
focus your eyes directly on the far wall where you see Ingrid suspended from the ceiling
beam by a thick rope which binds her wrists. She is squirming to try to free herself which
is causing friction burns on her lower arms. Tears stream from her eyes and her face is
white with fear. As she sees you, she cries out your name and begs you to save her. As
she does this, Angharad spins around to face you, her eyes red and menacing. She
advances on you, her arms still raised like wings and, as she draws closer, her heads arcs
back and she opens her mouth wide to reveal two sets of white teeth, the upper canines of
which are elongated and pointed.
With an unusually strong swipe of her arm, she knocks the object from your hand with a
mocking laugh and tries to fix you with her stare.

Roll two dice and compare the result to your current Faith score. If the roll is lower, turn
to 160. If the roll is higher, turn to 88

                                             149
You thank the old man for his kind offer, but explain that you are somewhat pressed for
time.
`So be it. Your loss,' he replies, and shows you to the door. You must now carry on along
the corridor. Turn to 131




                                                                                           42

                                            150
With some trepidation, you grip the door handle and turn it. The door opens very easily
given its heavy appearance and you step forward into a well-kept bed chamber,
completely in contrast with the dusty unkempt corridor you have come from. Lavish
black tapestries hang along the wall and a large and elaborately-carved four-poster bed
stands in the centre dominating the room.
You close the door behind you and, as you do, you hear the rustling of bed sheets. Turn
to 117

                                            151
Heydrich raises his ghostly arms and swoops in attack. As he has no tangible form as
such, his spirit can only be harmed by enchanted weapons. You are totally defenceless
and his essence engulfs your body and you are quickly consumed, doomed to become his
next acolyte for eternity. Your adventure ends here, having failed to prevent the legacy of
the vampire from coming to fruition.

                                            152
Her pleasant tone reassures you and you raise your hand to grasp hers in an attempt to
kiss it in welcome. As your face gets closer to her hand you are surprised to see that she
has no fingernails ­ where they should be is just frayed flesh but this unsettles you rather
than repulsing you.
Will you continue with the kiss? Turn to 79
Or will you attack her? Turn to 121

                                            153
A thorough search of the chamber reveals nothing more than filthy straw, a few areas of
mouldy brickwork, and the skeletal remains of the Ghoul's past victims.
You now approach the door in the opposite wall to that through which you entered the
chamber. Turn to 65

                                            154
You knock quietly at the door of Angharad's room and, although there is no response,
you can make out what sounds like a female voice singing softly.
Do you try the door? Turn to 163
Will you try Ingrid's room instead? Turn to 90
Would you like to go downstairs? Turn to 12
Or do you prefer to retire to bed? Turn to 145

                                            155
A gruff voice from within says `Hang on, I'm on my way' and you hear light footsteps
coming to the door. The sound of a key turning from the inside is heard, then the door
opens to reveal an odd-looking little old man staring at you inquisitively: `Yes, what is
it?' he asks.
Will you attack the man? Turn to 81
Ask for help? Turn to 42
Or apologise and walk away? Turn to 118



                                                                                          43

                                              156
You step through the door into a similar corridor to the original one you were heading
north on before you entered the pitch-black room. This corridor runs from north to south
and you surmise that south will take you back to the main entrance, so you turn
northwards.
You follow the corridor for several hundred yards until you reach a sharp turning to the
left. A door is on the right hand wall in the corner of the corridor and the carpet extends
out to it. Will you try the door (turn to 70) or follow the corridor around to the left (turn
to 131)?

                                              157
You step carefully around the tigerskin rug and are relieved to see that it is simply a rug
and nothing more. You reach the bed which is made with luxurious yellow silken sheets,
but you cannot help noticing that there are several red stains spotted about them. Lose 1
Faith point as you dip your finger in the blood and realise with horror that it is fresh,
perhaps even that of Angharad. Under the bed is a wooden drawer built into its frame.
Will you check in the drawer? Turn to 33
Would you like to take a look at the paintings? Turn to 43
Or will you leave the room now, as you are feeling a little nauseated? Turn to 86

                                              158
Against your better judgement, you enter the blackness and close the door behind you.
The second the door shuts, shrill voices begin to laugh maniacally and jeer at you.
Will you remain in the room? Turn to 130
Or will you open the door and go back into the corridor? Turn to 48

                                              159
In your final blow, the abomination explodes into a mist of tiny fly appendages which
dissipate out of the still open window. You take your chance to slam the window shut to
keep anything even more unpleasant from entering the room. As soon as the window
closes, Angharad snaps out of her trance, looks a little surprised to see you in her room,
and asks why you are flushed. You explain the odd events that have just occurred but she
seems to know nothing about them. All she can recall is that she had noticed her candle
flame flickering about as if being blown by a draft so she had gone to the window to
check that it was fully closed. The next she knew you were standing there as you are now
and this conversation had begun.
You settle her, tell her you will see her at breakfast in the morning, and return to your
room to try to finally get some uninterrupted sleep. Turn to 18




                                                                                            44

                                            160
You try to block the gravity of the situation from your mind and focus on a logical way of
handling this, but you must think fast and you only have one chance to make a decisive
move.
Will you:
          Not delay and simply attack Angharad with your magic sword? Turn to 120
          Hold out some garlic flowers? Turn to 103
          Hold up a crucifix? Turn to 63
          Try none of these? Turn to 88

                                            161
You watch with despair as Angharad pleads to no avail. You simply do not know enough
about the Heydrich bloodline to be able to help her expunge the true legacy of the
vampire.
Suddenly taking hold of herself again, Angharad opens her mouth to speak, but the voice
is not hers, instead it is deep, commanding, and chills you to the bone:
`I warned you, fool. Did you really believe you could interfere in my taking what is
rightfully mine to own.'
Angharad's head jerks from side to side as she flashes glances at the candles which fall
over, spilling flame and hot wax onto the deep pile of the carpet. You try to grab at the
door handle, but the door is now locked. You run to Ingrid who embraces you in stricken
terror. You can only watch as the flames quickly take hold of the room. The last thing
you see as you collapse, choking on the smoke, to the floor is Angharad opening the door
and then closing it behind her again with an evil laugh of victory. The legacy of the
vampire will soon prey on Mortvania's people once again.

                                            162
You crush some of the flowers in your left hand and wipe the strong-smelling residue on
your face and neck to deter any vampires that might attempt to attack you. Turn to 55

                                            163
You grasp the handle and the door opens into a simply decorated room with a small
dresser by a window and a large bed positioned centrally. Angharad sits by the window
with the curtains open. The full moon casts its light across the room and weird shadows
play on the wall furthest from the window. Angharad has not noticed you entering the
room and is singing to herself as she stares out of the window. As you close the door
behind you, your reflection appears in the window and she stops singing, startled at your
sudden appearance. She turns around and is relieved to see that the ghostly image in the
window was simply your reflection.
`You frightened me,' she says with a smile on her lips. `What can I do for you?'
Do you respond that you must have been sleepwalking? Turn to 98
Do you say that you could not sleep? Turn to 28
Or do you think it would be less suspicious to simply say that you went to the bathroom
and must have picked the wrong door on the way back to your room? Turn to 104




                                                                                         45

                                             164
Evidently, the inn's goblin chambermaid has not done a very thorough job of cleaning
your room today as she did not find the body under the bed. However, are you wearing a
talisman with the letter H stamped in it? If you are, turn to 92. Otherwise, turn to 23

                                             165
The old man falls down dead in front of you. He may have been cantankerous but he was
not an evil person. Lose 1 Luck point for killing an innocent man unnecessarily. You can
now either search the man's room (turn to 7) or close the door and return to the corridor
(turn to 131)

                                             166
You arrive back at the gates where the twins are already waiting for you, looking
disappointed with their "castle". The twins announce that this has been a thoroughly
underwhelming experience and insist on returning to the inn to get some food and to
sleep off last night.
You all return to the inn where you have dinner then decide to turn in for an early night.
Turn to 108

                                             167
Heydrich's spirit form dissipates into the air with your final blow. You hear a final
pathetic whimper as his malign existence is erased from Mortvania for good. The twins
look at you with a combination of awe and confusion.
You sit down in the ritual chamber and get your breath. The twins ask what is to come
next: `Paperwork,' you reply with a smile, `We still have your legacy to finalise.'
Heydrich's bloodline has been cleansed and maybe now there really is no such thing as
vampires anymore. You have ensured that the legacy of the vampire is nothing more than
a simple transaction of land inheritance. You have worked rather harder than normal to
earn your legal fees this time, but you are victorious in your unexpected mission.




                                                                                         46

